[music]
the volatility and the rotation that
we're seeing among single names is
healthy. The breath picture under the
surface for the S&P 500 is actually
starting to [music] improve.
>> The MAG 7, you know, they just have to
sort of behave, right, in order for the
market not to have, you know, kind of
one of these major scares.
>> I think equities are are still going up
15 to 20% from where they are over the
next year.
>> This bull market deserves the benefit of
the doubt. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, with markets on [music]
edge, investor jitters around mega cap
tech taking stock markets lower as a
chorus of Fed hawks is leaving a
December rate cut firmly in doubt. The
doves get a data point. Verizon
discussing plans to make some major job
cuts up to 20,000 jobs on the chopping
block.
>> And that's a significant part of their
overall staff, which is about [music] a
100,000 just to give you a sense. And it
comes after a leadership change at that
company that happened a couple of months
ago. This goes to the ultimate question
though. Verizon is cutting jobs as it
tries to compete on price. It can no
longer pass along price increases to
consumers. How much does this highlight
how much companies are grappling with
the fact that they're reaching [music]
the limits of consumer tolerance of
higher prices and have to make
efficiency changes that are hitting the
job market?
>> We keep getting [music] these
contradictory headlines in the labor
market as well. It's really confusing.
You take a big headline like that, super
[music] flashy, very concerning. Then
you compare it to something boring like
state jobless claims. State jobless
claims say everything is okay in the
labor market right now and that's some
fuel for the hawks into next month.
[music]
>> Most labor creation comes from smaller
businesses. That is the reason why this
is so complicated. You can get some
high-profile large businesses that are
making efficiency pushes, [music] but
this is what they always do. And this
can be idiosyncratic. It is not where
the most of the labor market growth
really happens. It's the reason why so
many people say, [music] "Watch for the
vibes, but really listen to the data.
The fact that we haven't gotten data, we
may not get data that we're looking for
really muddies the picture that much
more."
>> The vibes shifting around the Federal
Reserve. Let's talk about it. The hawks
making lots of noise in the last 24
[music] hours. At the end of August, the
start of September, the Fed starts
talking about riskmanagement, interest
rate cuts. The market [music] gets
excited about a cutting cycle. Here we
are facing the prospect of a prolonged
pause [music] and maybe for the duration
of Chairp's term as the chair of the
Federal Reserve.
>> So, I was looking at Fed funds futures
[music] back just before the last Fed
meeting about a month ago and it was
above 100% chance that there would be a
Fed rate cut in December. [music] You
take a look now, it is less than 50% for
the first time since that meeting.
Suddenly, people are saying there is
[music] a greater chance of the Fed not
cutting rates next month than actually
cutting rates because of the push back
that we got from Cleveland Fed President
Beth Hammock or St. Louis Fed President
Alberto Muslim. And there's a real
question here about how much they really
do have the upper hand as inflation
[music] does remain above that 2%.
>> Do you think that was the objective? I'm
pleased you've gone back to that news
conference. Wasn't that the objective of
Chairman Pal [music] to make this a coin
flip, a 50/50 bet for December and a
market that didn't really fully
internalize the message in that news
[music] conference? And it's taken a
flood of hawkish Fed speak in the last
day or so to really get [music] us back
to maybe where he wanted us to be.
>> This is what a lot of people are
speculating, which is the reason why
they're saying bet against this. They're
still going to cut rates because this is
just wonderful messaging to try to take
some of the froth [music] out of the
market. That said, it does seem like
this Federal Reserve wants to go slower
without the government data, and it
looks like we're not going to get the
government data. The idea that we could
get the jobless uh the overall job
creation from the non-farm payrolls, but
not the [music] employment rate, the
unemployment rate raises a question
about what kind of value this data
actually [music] will have.
>> Before we get into it here stage side,
let's just spend a moment a couple of
beasts on what's happening in the UK.
This is the price of chaos. The price of
chaos and uncertainty [music] is
volatility. And it's been a very
volatile session for sterling assets
over the last 24 hours, both for
sterling against the US dollar and for
the bond market as well. Back and forth
over what policy is going to look like
in the budget in the coming weeks.
[music] This has been a problem that's
been building for months now.
>> Yeah. So, they're between a rock and a
hard place when it [music] comes to
Rachel Reeves, the UK uh chancellor of
the excheer. And she was expected to
raise uh taxes yet again. I think the
third time in three years, even after
pledging she wouldn't [music] do so. Now
she's trying to back away from that
potentially. That's some of the news uh
this morning that's coming out and it's
raising questions. Is this a good thing
or a bad thing for the fiscal backdrop
[music] given that there aren't credible
means to cut spending at this point?
They're in a bad position and the
market's getting whipsawed by frankly
just fiscal instability, a lack of any
kind of fiscal structure of exactly how
they're going to maneuver.
>> This is one of one of the most
disruptive budgets I've ever seen
[music] and we haven't even seen it yet.
[laughter]
That's how ridiculous things are in the
UK [music] at the moment. Sterling all
over the place. Coming up this hour,
George Canas of MUFG [music] as the
equity market pulls back. Francisco
Blanch of Bank of America on the energy
risk for AI data centers and the former
BLS commissioner. Bill Beach on a month
of missing economic data. We begin this
hour with stocks already steady lower
heading lower after notching their worst
day in more than a month. George
Canarvis of MUFG writing, "Market
internals are starting to look exhausted
and ripe for at least a correction. We
think many of the positive catalysts are
priced in whereas the weak consumer and
credit concerns are not. George joins us
now for more. George, good morning sir.
>> Good morning.
>> Have you ever seen such a freakout about
a 2 to 3% pullback on the S&P 500?
>> It seems worse because it's been, you
know, easy sledding all year long after
liberation day. Right. It's been up and
to the right. And I think this is a
critical time point. We we're coming
towards the end of the year. There's
been a lot of gains had in many
different asset classes. I think this is
when investors start to discern, you
know, do they take chips off the table?
I think that the last couple days is
reminding them. I mean, the last week
and a half, to be honest.
>> What do you think is changing? What do
you think is changing? Lisa and I were
talking about this. The chairman clearly
had a message in the news conference at
the last meeting. Do you think the
market failed to fully internalize what
that message meant?
>> I do think there's an element of the Fed
at play as well. I mean, like we've we
the rates market, the bond market has
been pricing in cut cuts for quite some
time and now we're at this kind of 50/50
uh injunction. I do think that um the
you know if the Fed does not deliver on
the easing that's been promised or at
least expected uh that you know the
markets are going to repric all markets.
>> Do you think this is a Fed story or do
you think this is more a change in the
AI story from a pure play on the
potential hopes and dreams to one that
is more debtfueled and more speculative
with leverage put on top of it.
>> Even if that's the case and and I have
my concerns around that as well. I do
think that the cost of funding, the time
of the year, uh, you know, all these
great, uh, P&L all throughout the year
that we're getting to this point where,
you know, if the Fed doesn't deliver
cuts, I think it's probably weighing on
the psychology.
>> Okay. So, why aren't we seeing the
biggest draw downs and some of the more
cyclical plays? Why are we seeing the
big tech names hit hardest? Which is the
reason why I'm pushing back.
[clears throat] I'm trying to understand
exactly, do we need to have a narrative
for this or is this just basically
people taking the chips off the table?
>> Yeah. Well, I I mean I look the
narrative always shifts as you know and
the narrative for and and the reality as
well technology is a long duration play
always was and if and if they went from
using free cash flow to using debt and
interest rates will start to matter at
some point and so will spreads and
there's been actually a widening of
spreads within that category. So I do
think there's a fixed income component
not purely Fed and you know fundamentals
but you know I do think that you know if
they're becoming longduration assets
they're going to swing with with rates.
Do all of these forces, the forces I'm
talking about, Lisa is talking about, do
they put the year- end rally in
jeopardy? Is that year-end meltup now at
risk?
>> Well, here's I mean, look, we're going
to go through many many cycles before we
get towards the the typical year-end
seasonal type rally, which typically
kicks off closer to Thanksgiving into
the end of the year. I think it comes
down to the data, and we're going to at
least now finally with the government
reopening, we're going to get the data,
>> some data,
>> not all of it.
>> Not all of it. But I do think the the
the burden will be there that the burden
of proof is there that you know you have
to have really strong jobs data to turn
off the Fed even though they're talking
tough. You know I I think they'll
they'll go they're still going to cut is
our view by
>> can we just get into the data and why
we're not getting the household survey.
What is it about that particular survey
that makes it difficult to produce?
Well, I mean, I think it's the the
actual collection process and let's
let's also take a step back and realize
the BLS has been, you know, uh you st
have has had staffing issues all
throughout the year. Uh you know,
getting people back in in place,
collecting the surveys, doing the the
household. It's much easier to do the
establishment NFP.
>> What's your sense that this data would
come in stronger than expected or weaker
than expected based on some of the
peripheral information that we have been
getting? Yeah, I think that the
alternative data that we've gotten
throughout the last six weeks still
points to a weaker labor market. So I I
think that once that's that's clear and
you see it, uh it's going to be hard for
the Fed to back down.
>> So if the Fed does cut rates, where is
the outperformance going to actually
come from if it really is in response to
a real problem, right? It's sort of this
idea that be careful what you wish for
when the Fed actually does cut rates
because they could be responding to a
real issue.
>> True. I think if it lingers into Q1. So
if if the Fed cuts rates because we've
been kind of in this lull of no data, VA
has been very low, there's uncertainty
about what the outlook is. If they're
cutting because there the the persistent
weakness is one thing. If it's an
accelerated weakness, I think that
probably shows up more in Q1 than at the
end of the year.
>> Oh, you don't buy the pickup in Q1 next
year because that's what this market's
priced for. That's what Fed President
Muslim's talking about, a reaceleration
in Q1 26. Why don't you buy it? Well, I
mean, as both of you in your opening
intro, I mean, yes, small businesses
should be leading the charge, but if you
look at the NFIB surveys, you're not
seeing that, you know, pick up yet, and
they're the most rate sensitive. So, you
need to get rates much lower to get them
to actually start to hire and not just,
you know, be reacting to the fiscal
policy that's been put in place. And
like, and look, let's not ignore the
layoffs have been huge and they keep
coming through even heading into the
holiday season. And the seasonal sort of
like hiring plans aren't there. So, the
jobs market in our view still gets worse
before it gets better. They're real.
That headline for Verizon was super
concerning. The initial report, I think,
came from the Wall Street Journal and
said up to 15,000 and four, five, six
hours later, that number went up 5K.
That's super concerning,
>> especially given the fact that it's
trying to compete on price. This is
because Verizon has fel fallen behind
when it comes to attracting new
consumers because they've tried to just
raise prices on the ones that they're
keeping. They can't do that anymore,
which highlights really the state of
some of the weakening that we're seeing.
hiring intentions elsewhere aren't
exactly robust for that 20,000 job cut
pool to go and find a job immediately
afterwards anyway. That's the problem in
a low churn labor market to have those
kind of layoffs. Where's the pickup
going to come from?
>> The real question though going forward
is how much will Fed rate cuts change
that right? How much is this something
that is structural structural or
cyclical? This has been the big debate
on the Fed and frankly this is the big
debate in markets. How much are we
seeing a new efficiency ploy that's
going to somehow reduce the need for
human labor that's going to really skew
the numbers in a material way?
>> The S&P this morning session lows now
we're down by 0.5% on the S&P 500.
George Canas of MBFG is going to be
sticking with us. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara Arnand.
Hey yra.
>> Hi [music] John. President Donald Trump
is preparing substantial tariff cuts to
address high food prices. The [music]
president unveiled framework agreements
with Argentina, Guatemala, El Salvador,
and Ecuador to reduce tariffs [music] on
common grocery items. The deals will
reduce tariff and barriers on items like
beef, [music] bananas, and coffee beans
in a push to lower costs. Meanwhile, new
data out of China showed cooling
economic activity at the start of the
fourth quarter. Investment slumped at a
record pace for [music] the period,
while industrial output saw its smallest
gain since the start of the year.
[music] and retail sales slowed for the
fifth straight month. And UK [music]
bond yields are pairing losses after
Chancellor Rachel Reeves dropped plans
to [music] raise income taxes. The
change came in response to an improved
fiscal forecast from the UK's budget
watchdog. The country's fiscal hole was
found to be closer [music] to 20 billion
pounds while expectations were as high
as 35 billion which still may require
major tax rises to tackle in the future.
[music] Just remember brief John. Yhara,
thank you. More from Yihara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
fixing affordability.
>> I want to address the affordability
issue.
>> So, we [music] understand that people
still feel the the pain.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again.
>> That conversation up next with
Bloomberg's Mikasa live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Stocks are down. We're down by 0.5% on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, check
[music] this out. down again by.9%. And
check out what isn't happening. There's
no bond market rally. Check out fixed
income [music] 210 30s. Yields up by a
single basis point and tens 41289.
That's something new. We [music] talked
about bonds doing what bonds are meant
to do recently. Not happening in the
last 24 hours.
>> And part of this could be you could say
this is part of the Fed move. The idea
that the riskoff mood stems from [music]
the Fed being more reluctant to cut
rates as a given in December. There also
has been a different tone under this
particular sell-off which is you're
seeing a commensurate [music] selloff in
some of the corporate credit tied to
some of the big tech names that's new
real push back suddenly from debt
investors who are saying hold on a
second what are we paying for
>> everything [music] that was doing so
well is facing push back across the
board and I'll throw in crypto as well
Bitcoin's had a terrible go of it too if
you've had a good year you've had a bad
few days [music] that seems to be the
story at the moment
>> momentum has really struggled and I
think that that raises this question is
that the beginning of something deeper
we [music] starting to see that rotation
that Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley was
talking about. Interesting that the
NASDAQ is underperforming the the
Russell [music] 2000. You're seeing the
equal weight actually outperform for a
consistent stretch of a number of days.
So it raises this question, is this the
beginning of [music] the new stretch,
which is a positive, or is this the
beginning of a downturn that reflects a
weakening? That's a negative.
>> Equity futures this morning down by
0.6%.
Under surveillance this morning, [music]
fixing affordability.
>> I want to address the affordability
issue. The Trump administration has
taken aggressive action to fix the Biden
created cost of living issues.
>> So [music] we understand that people
still feel the the pain. We see really
high wage growth and inflation is much
more under control.
>> My administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living and make America
affordable again.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump preparing new
trade deals and substantial [music]
cuts to tariffs as the administration
looks to ease affordability concerns.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Mika Sona.
Mika, this is a bit of a pivot coming
from the White House over the last week
or so. What's behind it and what are the
steps they're willing to take?
>> Yeah, absolutely. After the results of
the election earlier this month, I think
the White House is really looking to
hammer the affordability affordability
cost of living message that uh Democrats
have done so well on. President Trump
has essentially uh blamed any kind of
economic downturn on his predecessor Joe
Biden. But right now, I think uh the
circumstances that millions of Americans
are feeling when it comes to their
pocketbook is really catching up to
them. So the administration is really
trying to scramble here and find some
ways to make that their winning issue.
>> Ma, how did they massage the messaging?
Because the takeaway for a lot of people
is going to be you're focused on
affordability and your first move is to
drop tariffs. Aren't you acknowledging
that tariffs are damaging affordability?
Well, one way that the White House is
really trying to mitigate that is the
idea of a potential tariff uh stimulus
or surplus uh checks going to Americans
with an income threshold that would
qualify for that. Uh similar to the CO
stimulus bill. Um other areas that the
the president is looking to is a
potentially a 50-year mortgage. And
there's other avenues I think that the
White House is still exploring when it
comes to trying to message and play up
the message of uh affordability. Mika, I
appreciate the update. Mika Sona in
Washington DC. It's a problem, isn't it?
It's a real problem.
>> You can't say that you want to remove
some of the tariffs to address cost of
living issues while also saying that
tariffs don't cause inflation and have
no impact on the price of goods. This is
a conundrum for them and it raises
issues frankly for the Supreme Court
case. How do they argue this is a
national security concern if they can
remove the tariffs because of an
affordability issue? There are a lot of
questions here and it raises a real
issue longer term for how they deploy
this in a strategic way.
>> George and Calvas of MBFG is still with
us. George, this is a challenge for the
economic marketing wing of the White
House. Kevin Hasset has to dance around
this carefully, but what's your
conclusion based on the past few days?
>> Look, uh, a few things. One, the tariffs
do matter because not everyone's
consumption basket is the same. So
there's an acknowledgement if the food
component for some c for some cohorts
are matter more than others then clearly
that's obviously the way you address it.
Number two the tariffs haven't fully
been implemented. I mean we've obviously
benefited with some price rigidities
throughout the year. There was a lot of
inventory pull through and and and and
hoarding of goods and like so like we're
going to see still we still believe that
the tariffs are going to still filter
through over the next 3 to 6 months. And
the the saving grace for the US is that
it, you know, we we consume only 20% of
goods and most of it is still services,
right? So still we're still getting the
disinflationary from the the rent side
from wages not going up, but I think
it's I think it's going to come through
and I think it's clearly an issue. And
and then the second point which the bond
market you have to be careful here
because the bond market has it the
saving grace for the bond market has
been the tariffs. Ironically enough,
it's been a revenue source. So if you're
going to then shift to a sort of
stimulus using tariffs, the bond market
will then repric and then there goes all
your benefits.
>> People are simple have sympathy for the
national security objectives of the
tariff push. I think people are
sympathetic with that issue. One, but
two, I don't mean to be flippant about
this or snarky, but don't go after
people's coffee. This is the pitfall of
doing everything all at once on everyone
without a nuanced approach to the kind
of things that you know you don't make
here in America. You don't develop
enough. You don't grow. That's the
problem.
>> Yeah. avocados, bananas, coffee. Every
morning everyone goes and gets their
coffee. That's sort of a barometer for
how much prices are going up. But again,
this goes to the idea of how much the
recognition of the public opinion and
how much it's declined on some of these
price of living, cost of living
increases, how much is affecting the
politics, how much are we
underestimating how much that's going to
really affect policy going forward?
>> The Supreme Court's another issue as
well. They might strike down a lot of
this by the end of the year. You throw
in the fact that the Federal Reserve
isn't going to be cutting or hiking
anytime soon. They're just going to
stamp out. You've got an administration
backing away from tariffs. You look at
this bond market now, George, what are
the risks around fixed income for the
new year?
>> So, that's that's the challenge, right?
That's why I was making this point that
it's been a good year for most asset
classes. Even treasuries rallied, right?
Y have
>> fallen. Look, and that's been our view,
by the way. We were, you know, we were
out of consensus. We were pretty much
bullish duration. But the fact that we
keep stalling at that 4 percent level,
it's going to be hard for rates to rally
if we're we're seeing these sort of, you
know, uh, indecision either from the Fed
or what's going on on the fiscal front.
The bond market, I think, is in this
sort of impass that could, you know, see
a backup in rates easily, easily 25
basis points. Well, this is what a lot
of people have been debating on this
show. Whether we're going to see some
sort of stimulus next year, early next
year, that's going to cause yields to go
up in anticipation of inflation,
anticipation of stronger growth, or if
that stimulus extends to monetary
stimulus and the use of the balance
sheet to suppress yields, even if that
is the potential ramifications. How are
you playing that out?
>> Yeah, it's a timing issue ultimately,
right? And then of course you can throw
in there you know you know
[clears throat] chair pal's in play
until at least May and then what happens
after that there's going to be a big
timing issue. So like for us it's more
about the forward curve and how the
forward curve is signaling that rates
are actually going to head higher in
like 26 27 slightly like the lower sort
of terminal rate has been shifting up
above 3% and if you look at the forward
curve in 2728 is already at 325. So like
you're already starting to see like the
market saying hey it's going to be hard
to pin rates down. At the same time,
yesterday we saw something new, at least
versus the past couple of ma uh months,
which is the return of the sell America
trade. We saw it with respect to bonds.
We saw it with respect to AI. We saw it
with respect to the dollar. And I'm just
wondering, do you think this is going to
come back or do you think this is a
momentary blip until people realize that
everywhere else it's not so much better?
I'm not sure if all the asset classes
will stay in unison like that because if
we do go into a more uh an actual
slowdown that's more visible and present
on and the labor market to us is so
critical that eventually the bond market
would catch a bid but in this period of
indecision where we it's very ambiguous
you don't know where you are and you
have this fiscal uncertainty I think
that you all asset classes can go down.
>> What's your assessment of where the
labor market is right now? What's a good
jobs number? What is a bad jobs number?
What is the break even rate? What's the
range of estimates for you and the team?
No, look at and that's that's a moving
target and it depends on a number a
number of factors. We're still and and
of course we may we may not get the
unemployment rate. So we're more focused
on the unemployment rate uh and the the
lack of you know there's a lot of uh
entrance that are not coming into the
jobs market. I mean if you look at the
youth unemployment that is a shadow
unemployment rate that's you know really
not filtering through to claims data
like claims data if you don't have a job
you can't go and actually get get the
claims right. So like all these things
have been altered and so you're not
really in good getting a good sense. I
think that um you know anything like
around 50 plus thousand NFPs
>> 50 plus gets it done keeps a lid on
unemployment
>> for the most part.
>> Yeah.
>> The problem is that we're not going to
get unemployment.
>> Right.
>> As the Federal Reserve put out where
they think the break even rate is and
what they think is a good number. I'm
trying to work out what the guides going
to be for December 10th. We will get
payrolls. We won't get unemployment.
What's a good number? What's a bad
number? Well, at least this Fed to cut
interest [clears throat] rates. I mean
the federal work work numbers are going
to work through there as well. So we're
probably going to get a really weak NFP
at least for for October and and
September could be pretty weak as well.
>> What's your highest conviction trade
heading into the end of the year?
>> So I I mean we we like being underweight
credit at this point because how much of
it's been priced in. Uh even mortgages
have performed. So even mortgage spreads
are too tight. basically, you know, uh
staying very defensive down the curve
and uh and anything beyond the
seven-year point on the Treasury curve,
I think is at risk, which will then
amplify IG losses as well as uh
mortgages.
>> So, what do you like?
>> I just short-term short-term securities.
>> Short-term securities and just cash
essentially. You're you're packing cash
into your mattress and expecting for the
worst. Is that right?
>> Well, sort of. But I mean it's more of
that it's defensive in in anticipation
of if we get the sort of weakness in the
macro front then you can redeploy. Um so
I think yeah it's it's more about just
trying to look for you know a setup for
next year.
>> A super bearish George Canas of MUFG.
Thank you sir. Good to see you George.
George didn't say that but that's my
conclusion for anyone sat at the front
end of the curve parked in cash waiting
for bad things to happen.
>> Yeah. So that you can come in and buy. I
guess that that's the one silver lining
is that potentially there could be
better valuations that come down the
pike. But there is this feeling that
right now uh there's a dichotomy between
those people who say look this can't
continue. There's too much froth that
potentially needs to come out of the
market before we can get in and those
people who say it's a Santa Claus rally.
People are going to feel like they
missed out after 20 plus uh% earnings on
the NASDAQ overall. They've missed the
rally. The FOMO is going to get everyone
back in and ultimately that's the debate
heading into year end.
>> There's nothing festive about this move
so far this morning. We're down by 0.6%
on the S&P and it's not coming with a
rally in the bond market. Yields on
10-year treasuries are just about
unchanged now on the session. Coming up
on the program in the next segment,
we'll catch up with Francisco Blanch of
Bank of America on the limitations
threatening the AI data [music] center
buildout. Plus, Yahara has some of the
morning movers for you. StubHub
plummeting [music] after his first annex
report since going public. That stock is
down by 19%. Live [music] from New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The losses continue. We're down by 0.6%
6% on the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 down
[music] by 1%. Session lows, we snapped
a 4-day streak without losses on the
benchmark stage side in yesterday's
session. The biggest one day loss going
back [music] to October. So, the biggest
one day decline at about a month on the
NASDAQ session lows and down another 1%
so far. [music] Turn to the bond market.
Look what's not happening. No Treasury
market rally this morning. 10-year bond
yields just about unchanged [music] at
41250. 2-year bond yields at 35849.
[music]
>> You can say this is because of the Fed.
I'll bring another uh aspect to this.
Yesterday, we got that 30-year auction.
I was saying that it was going to be
exciting. It was exciting. There was
actual push back and it led a selloff in
the long end of the yield [music] curve
that moved into the corporate debt
market where there has been some
longerterm debt that's been sold. So,
how much is this what's at play versus
actually a [music] Fed rate?
>> I throw in the hawkish chorus as well in
the last 24 hours. I think it's material
[music]
and clearly there's an objective here to
get the odds for December back to a coin
flip because I don't think this market
fully internalized the [music] message
coming from the chairman in the last
news conference
>> and you can see from Fed funds futures
that it went from more than 100% chance
of a December [music] rate cut right
before the October news conference to
now below 50% to that coin flip that
you're talking about as we hear this
turn of different Fed officials coming
out and saying inflation [music]
still is a real problem and that is our
priority. That's the story of the front
end of the curve. As Lisa pointed out,
the very long end of the curve. [music]
Check out 30s this morning. Up another
two basis points, 473.
That's the cross asset setup so far this
Friday morning as we count you down to
the opening about 3 hours away. [music]
Let's get you some morning movers with
Yhira. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We start with Warner Brothers
Discovery. Shares are rising 3% in the
pre-market on growing conviction a
buyout could materialize. That's because
the Wall Street [music] Journal is
report reporting Paramount, Comcast, and
Netflix are all preparing bids ahead
[music] of a November 20th deadline with
Paramount eyeing the whole company while
Comcast [music] and Netflix are eyeing
the studios, HBO Max, but not its cable
studios. And we move on to Applied
Materials. Those shares are falling 5
a.5% in the pre-market after reporting
[music]
another quarter of falling sales. This
is a company that makes the machines
[music] that make semiconductors. And
they say that US export curbs to China
are weighing on sales. It [music]
expects that drag to continue into the
current quarter and doesn't expect a
pickup in demand until [music] the
latter part of next year. And we end on
a big mover to the downside and that is
[music] StubHub. Shares are falling 18%
after delivering a much bigger loss than
Wall Street expected in its first
earnings report since becoming a public
company. Revenue and ticket [music]
volume did come in solid, but shares
started to plunge yesterday on the
earnings call when the CEO said that
they would [music] not give a 2026
outlook just yet, despite him insisting
that demand for live ticket events
[music]
remains phenomenal. John,
>> brutal move. Yhara, thanks for the
update. Appreciate it. On a radar this
morning, the White House readying
substantial tariff cuts to everyday
items as it ramps up messaging on
affordability. The cuts coming through
trade deals with Latin American
countries that export items like beef,
bananas, and coffee beans. Elsewhere,
Fed officials casting doubt on a
December interest rate cut. Minneapolis
Fed President Neil Qashqari saying he
didn't support the central bank's latest
interest rate cut. Plus, Cleveland Fed
President Beth Hammock sharing a similar
take.
>> I think we need to remain somewhat
restrictive to continue putting pressure
to bring inflation down towards our
target. The comments highlighting a
growing divide among policy makers.
>> Ultimately, they're hamstrung between
the idea of a labor market that does
seem to be slowing and inflation that
still is above target. What Beth Hammock
of the Cleveland Fed said though, I
think is really interesting. She pointed
to Fed credibility. She said, "How can
the Fed maintain its credibility if it
doesn't prioritize getting inflation
down to 2%." That ultimately may end up
being the quagmire. How much does the
Fed look at the dollar for a tell on
exactly how much this is a Fred
credibility issue versus uh maybe just a
usual monetary policy decision? But that
seems to be preeminent in some of their
discussions.
>> It's funny, isn't it? Because those
comments from Beth Hammock make the
process appear to be more credible even
if they do decide to cut interest rates
with inflation closer to three than two.
>> Oh, what a skeptic. I love it. This is
actually what a lot of people are
saying. You're absolutely not wrong. And
I think that a lot of people are saying
the same thing. It sounds so good.
Doesn't this actually do exactly the job
that people were expecting the Fed to
do, which is they're still going to cut
rates, don't worry, but they're going to
try to make it seem like it is a very
deliberative process that really is uh
come
>> torture. I don't think the division is
contrived. I think it's real. I just
think that the optics are valuable right
now because the inflation story, look,
you'd look at markets and you'd still
say that inflation expectations are
still well anchored. Well, thank
goodness we have people like Beth
Hammock on the committee to make sure
that we just pull back the individuals
that would like to go 50 5050 every
single meeting and get us down to 2
point something almost immediately with
inflation closer to three than to two.
>> I'll add to that Steven Myron who is the
Fed governor who's thought to be the
Uber dove who's wants to cut by 50 basis
points came out yesterday and was
talking about how he's concerned about
overuse of the balance sheet. So, if you
want to take a look at even the uber
doves coming out and really expressing
some concern about overly
interventionist policy, he's not alone.
He's actually joining the chorus.
>> He's not running to be Fed chair. Just
to throw that out there. Equity futures
this morning. Session lows are down by
0.6%. Big focus on the labor market, of
course, and this headline that came
yesterday. Verizon discussing cutting as
many as 20,000 jobs, downsizing the
workforce by as much as 20%. People
familiar with the matter telling
Bloomberg the cut could come at every
level of the business. That one could
hurt.
>> Yeah. And this one comes after a
leadership change. Dan Schulman coming
in as CEO. when one thing that he said
was that they're going to take bold and
fiscally responsible actions. He said,
"These will not be incremental changes.
We will aggressively transform our
culture, our cost structure, and the
financial profile of Verizon in order to
put our customers first." They are
dealing with the fact that T-Mobile and
AT&T have been eating their lunch. They
have been lowering prices and they have
been getting a lot of new customers.
They have not. So now they have to
compete on price. Is this a telecom
story or is this a broader question of
competing on price and making efficiency
cuts in the process in order to deal
with the fact consumers just don't want
to pay up?
>> That is the argument of the doves right
now in the committee. Essentially
everything you've just said about
Verizon is the argument of the doves on
the Federal Reserve at the moment
>> which is the reason why they think that
inflation is not going to pick up and
that ultimately you have to prioritize
the labor market and this is a
structural shift where they can be more
efficient. That is the key. They can be
more efficient and do less do more with
less because of some of the
technological advancements. Verizon this
morning in the pre-market higher by just
about 2 ten of 1%. Let's turn to energy.
The White House pushing for
affordability while AI electricity
demands remain poised to raise costs.
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America
writing, "We are concerned that retail
electricity affordability might cause
politicians and regulators to slow down
data center development." Francisco
joins us now for more. Francisco, good
morning, sir.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> This is timely and very important. It's
good to see you. Let's take a step back.
What's happened to electricity prices in
places like Virginia where you've seen
this massive data center buildout?
>> Uh they're going up. Uh no surprise.
Remember ever since the uh the the
beginning of mankind, we've tried to use
more energy uh to reduce the labor input
into any process, right? I mean uh
whether it is inventing fire or or uh
you know just just electricity itself
and I mean everything is about energy,
right? Energy and technology are the
main drivers of productivity and we are
in the midst of a major technological
transformation uh that sure requires a
lot of chips and requires a lot of uh uh
data and data centers but also requires
a lot of energy. So the technology and
the energy are combining in a way that
that's to your earlier comment. We're
seeing job reductions but at the same
time we're going to see a massive
increase in power bills. AI is winning
the payoff fight on Wall Street. it's
losing on Main Street. How do you
convince people it's good for them when
you build a data center like this in
their area and you sit there and you
say, "Look, this is what's happening. My
job's under threat and my electricity
bills going up." What's AI doing for me?
>> Well, I mean, hopefully it's uh it's
allowing you to repolish your skills and
uh potentially facilitate the the u a
lot of the processes in in your life.
But but you're right. I mean, where we
are where we're seeing the shortages in
the skill base, it's is really in in
more manual labor and and and that's
where what CEOs are telling us, right?
That that's where the gap is is is
people able to do things with their
hands. Uh
one key example people bring up all the
time is well, it's not it's not easy to
apple pick, right? I mean, you actually
need a lot of computing power to
replicate apple picking, but yet for a
human, apple picking comes just
naturally.
>> How much does this muddy the investment
process as an investor? How difficult
does this make it to say, look, I want
to invest in electricity. I want to
invest in building these plants if there
is this policy uncertainty of how
politicians are going to respond to
rising prices.
>> So, there's definitely going to be a
concern, right, with with ris with
prices rising, but also remember it's
not just about uh the the the power
centers themselves. It's also about the
uh transmission lines, the connection,
the grid, uh the substations. There's so
many things that go into the electricity
network. They're very very expensive to
upgrade. And and I think the key point
people need to remember is that for the
last 15 20 years, average electricity
demand has grown at 0.2.3%.
A year. Now it's growing at 2 to 3% a
year, 10 times the rate. So in order to
accommodate that kind of demand growth,
you need to invest very very heavily. Or
you can do what Texas is doing, which is
deregulate and just go very fast. I mean
Tex and power demand is growing at 5%
peranom. you won't even find an emerging
market that's growing that fast. But
they've taken the the the the view of
like anything goes, right? So so you can
be highly deregulatory like just just
super fast or or alternatively, you
know, you got to find a way to
accommodate these data centers, but but
you know, utilities have long-term
contracts. They can't they can't give
away them now. Otherwise, the lights
would just go off. We wouldn't be able
to talk right now. This is fascinating
because there is the potential
deregulatory uh impulse coming from the
United States and you're seeing this
pretty broadly. You're not seeing that
in Europe and right now you're seeing a
lot of pressures coming on the
electricity side, not only from data
center usage, but also just from uh some
of the heating costs from potentially a
cold winter. Why is it a better bet to
expect uh energy prices in the UK and
frankly in mainland uh Europe to go up
much faster than those in the United
States? So, so one one advantage, if you
can call it that way, that Europe has
over the US is is that is that Europe
Europe destroyed its its demand for
power in 22 and 23 with the uh Russia
Ukraine crisis and and and the big
increase in in gas and power prices that
came on the back of of the Russian
invasion of Ukraine. So, um as Europe
lost access to all that Russian energy
uh and of course we also had an issue
with French nuclear reactors that year,
we ended up with a massive spike in
prices uh gas and power. So that that
hurt demand for industry. So Europe has
plenty of spare capacity to ramp up
electricity supply and in fact
utilization rates for for gas fire power
stations in Europe are 23% on average. I
mean so that means that threequarters of
the time these gas plants aren't running
in Europe.
they they could bring those back and and
and and and of course the other thing
that that's Europe has going for it is
that in the next 12- 18 months America
is going to export a lot of liquid
natural gas, a lot of LNG and that's
part of the trade deal with President
Trump and and President Vander Lion.
Europe is going to be buying a lot more
gas from from the US and it's going to
hopefully become cheaper after extremely
high prices for the last five years. So
that's one tailwind for Europe. Now, of
course,
it's a tailwind that comes in the back
of of a major industrial compression and
four years of of recession, quasi
recession in Germany. So, so it's not
something that they were necessarily
building, but something then that Europe
ended up with.
>> Throw in the issue that are also gripped
by climate doom, climate doomerism
across the continent. I don't think it's
surprising that Bill Gates came out
recently and backed away from climate
doom because he's got a big stake in
building out a massive AI push across
this country as well. And that's the
issue. You've got a generation that has
been indoctrinated by climate doom in
Europe and I don't see them backing away
from that anytime soon. Do you look at
the UK, great example of that?
>> Right. And and and and Europe has been
trying to pull back also from from
nuclear power. Uh many many countries
continue to try to shut down nuclear
reactors. There's a couple projects in
between. people, you know, we are a
little bit over reliant on gas and power
in sorry gas on um on on on um wind and
solar and in in in the power sector and
I think I think uh um you know the
buildout in the last four or five years
has created some vulnerabilities because
uh there's been little investment in the
grid in Europe but very importantly very
little investment in in uh what's called
battery storage for power. So, uh, in
California and in Texas, they've kind of
figured this one out already. So,
they've invested very heavily in those
areas. So, so you've seen as a result a
better behaved power market in in Texas.
California is a bit of a different story
because it's got other issues. But, but
Europe needs to really step up on the
investment in in in battery uh in
battery storage.
>> You've given us tons to think about.
What's the trade? What are you
advocating for at the moment? So, uh we
are we are generally bearish on European
natural gas prices because we think all
this wave of US natural gas is going to
push uh things lower. That's on the gas
side. Um we are still constructive on
things that you need to build those data
centers like copper medium-term. We
think copper is going to go to $15,000 a
ton medium-term. Uh we still like
silver. Silver is the best electricity
conductor. Of course, it's uh already
expensive. We think we'll go to $65 an
ounce. Um and so so again more bearish
on the gas still bullish on on the
metals that are uh significantly supply
constrained and then I think on the on
the oil side we are maybe more on the on
the bearish side here although
geopolitics are very complicated there
right so final question it's an
important one for viewers waking up this
morning is our coffee going to get
cheaper or not
>> well I mean that's that's a that's a
trade trade situation right I think
eventually uh you know Brazil is is the
biggest exporter of of of coffee of of
beef and one biggest in the world. So I
mean obviously tariffs on Brazil don't
help but but hopefully uh the answer is
yes. We you know agricultural
commodities are are beautiful in the
sense that they they tend to mean revert
a lot faster uh for the most part with
the exception of cattle. They tend to
mean revert a lot faster than than for
example metals which can can trend on
forever because it takes 10 years to
build a mine.
>> We hope you're right. Thank you sir. We
appreciate it as always. Thank you very
much. Francisco Blanch there of Bank of
America. The AI buildout, the data
center buildout, and the political push
back we're about to see in this country,
I think could be quite severe based on
what happens with electricity prices in
the not too distant future.
>> Yeah. And one of the key questions is
what do they do about it? Is it with
respect to putting a stop to some of the
data center proliferation? Is it sort of
capping some of the buildout or is it
just mass deregulation akin to what
we've seen in in Texas that allows a
very rapid buildout of a lot of
different electricity grids?
>> Equity futures this morning, session
lows right now. Now we're down by 0.7%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira.
Hey yhira.
>> Hi John. Ukrainian drones attacked a
giant Russian Black [music] Sea oil port
overnight prompting the state of
emergency. The attacks come as Russia
has been ramping up strikes on power
facilities across Ukraine, [music]
aiming to disrupt the country's energy
system ahead of winter. Meanwhile,
Amazon and Microsoft are lining up
against Nvidia. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the two companies are
supporting [music] legislation that
would require chip companies to satisfy
US demand before sending products to
China and other countries subject
[music] to arms embargos. Nvidia is
fighting the legislation.
And the shutdown is over and paychecks
are finally flowing with a bit of extra
cash given to some federal workers.
Homeland Security Secretary Christy
Gnome announced TSA [music] officers who
worked without pay during the shutdown
will be getting $10,000 bonus checks
calling the payments [music] a reward
for exemplary exemplary service under
strain. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> I hope that happens. Thank you. [music]
Thanks for the update. We appreciate it.
Up next on the program waiting for
delayed data. the October [music]
uh employment report uh for the payroll
side will will be able to be calculated
but the household survey wasn't
completed so we will never know what the
unemployment rate was in October.
>> That conversation up next with the
former BLS commissioner Bill Beach from
New York City. [music] This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Stocks are lower negative by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P. We're down by more than 1%
now on the NASDAQ 100. On the Russell,
[music] we're down by 0.85.
If you turn to fixed income quickly, I
just want to give you a snapshot of
what's not happening in treasuries.
Yields are [music] up at the long end of
the curve on 10 and on 30s at least for
the 10 year to about 413. As a level,
413 [music] is nothing to be concerned
about, but it's just the move relative
to what's happening with risk assets
[music] that catches you on a morning
like this one. Yeah, there a couple of
different narratives. On one hand, this
is yield curve steepening that's coming
with the expectation that maybe
>> [music]
>> uh the Fed will be more aggressive
earlier next year despite uh the fact
that we are in something of a data
desert and the fact that there has been
this push back. On the other hand, you
are seeing [music] supply concerns and
you're seeing that in a very real way
both in the corporate side as well as on
the US government debt [music] side and
we saw that yesterday. How much is that
percolating into some of the price
action?
>> We'd like some data under surveillance
this morning waiting for delayed data.
The September jobs [music] report has
already been cooked uh and we expect we
might get that next week. The October uh
employment report uh for the payroll
side will will be able to be calculated,
but the household survey wasn't
completed. So we'll get sort of [music]
half the jobs report. Uh most everything
else I think will be able to concoct the
the correct number after we look back,
but we will never know what the
unemployment rate was in October because
there wasn't a household survey. [music]
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Official economic data set to return
after the recordl long government
shutdown delayed releases for more than
a month. Joining us now the former BLS
commissioner Bill Beach. Bill, welcome
back to the program. Can you give us
some insight into how the BLS will be
operating at the moment after a month
plus long government shutdown? What the
first order of business actually is?
>> Well, I think they turned the data
systems on yesterday to sort of end that
data desert that you just referred to.
And so u hopefully everything rebooted
well. That's always a a question. And
then they have to ask about the field
staff. How many people are coming back
to work? You know, some of those people
probably took uh early retirement or
retirement. It's kind of an older staff.
Anyway, we might want to talk about the
CPI. But back to the jobs report that
Dr. Hasset mentioned. Yeah, it is true.
The jobs number which is acquired from
firms through an electronic survey. Now
BLS will prompt those firms to send
their survey in electronically to
Chicago or Fort Walton Beach where those
those forms are collected and we will
probably have a jobs number for o for
October. Um but the household survey
which is collected largely by calling
people on the telephone and asking them
a series of questions quite a lot a lot
of questions we may never have those
those data and that includes not only
the unemployment rate but all of the
breakout by race by region uh labor
force participation all those things
that are really important for policy
makers to follow. Um, I'm also concerned
about the CPI, but I think on the labor
side where we that'll be the biggest
hole. I do expect the jobs report to
come out for September, which was fully
collected, but not quite written up yet.
I I expect that next week. I think
they're right about that.
>> Well, you mentioned inflation a few
times. Just describe the CPI process,
the data collection, how that survey is
put together, and why it's so difficult
to produce that number.
>> So, the CPI is collected from the first
of the month to the end of the month.
that they put as many working days in
there as possible and it's largely
collected. I I'd say about oh 70% of all
of the observations or goods services
are collected by people going into
stores. These are BLS employees and
literally going down the aisles and
marking down the price and seeing how
many you know potato chips are in the
bag. So it's a labor intensive thing.
it. Now we're starting that process
probably next Monday. That only gives us
two weeks to collect four weeks of data.
Now it is true that a lot of that data
comes in electronically. The housing
stuff, the g the gasoline, automobile
prices, those are electronically
produced uh data from private sources.
So 30% fine, no problem. But you can't
you can't have a CPI with only 30% of
the data. So I'm worried about the CPI.
I'm worried about the quality of the
October CPI.
Um so um so so that's that's that's an
issue and um we'll see how that works.
The November numbers are also at risk
because we're going to be collecting
those November numbers as well as
collecting as many of the data on the
October side as we possibly can is
that's going to be really dicey, but I
think the staff is is probably up to it.
So let me just say bottom line uh no
unemployment rate, no labor force data
that shows the demographics and I think
people should be concerned about the
CPI. The PPI is collected largely
electronically and of course the import
export indexes are entirely collected
from administrative data from the
commerce department. Bill, just quickly
here, how much are you seeing the
reduction in staff for the Bureau of
Labor Statistics just generally
presenting a problem in both ramping up,
but also going forward presenting the
same kind of accurate data?
>> Well, at at the beginning of the
shutdown, we had a really firm number,
and it was about one out of every five
employees at BLS had had quit. But there
are two areas of really great concern.
First off, uh the field and I've
mentioned that several times. You know,
so many of our data from the employment
cost index, which is field collected,
the CPI, uh the household survey, uh
that does the unemployment rate. These
are these are it's labor intensive. So,
you have to be really concerned for the
thousand people, 1,000 people basically,
who work in the field. Uh we don't know
how many of those people are coming back
to work. Honestly, they're they're
largely an older staff and that means
they may have choices in whether they
work or not work. And then the other
area that I'm very concerned about is
the senior leadership of BLS. About 31
positions that are absolutely crucial
and um about 12 13 of those we think are
now uh vacant. That's the largest
vacancy rate ever. And so the this is
expert knowledge that just can't be
replaced quickly by going out to you
know indeed.com and finding some some
good resume. You that's that those two
areas I'm very concerned about.
>> Bill, thank you sir. I leave this
interview with way more concern than I
had going into it. The former BLS
commissioner Bill Beach there on the
difficulty of putting together this
economic data.
>> Yeah. And going forward what it means
for the staffing levels at this key uh
economic statistics agency. The second D
of Bloomberg surveillance coming up next
with equity futures near session lows.
[music]
If [music] you have the payroll number,
but you don't have the unemployment
rate, we don't really understand what
the supply situation is looking like.
>> It's not a foregone conclusion that the
labor market is in balance. I think we
still have enough information to say
that the economy is still kind of
muddling along.
>> There is enough evidence here for the
Fed to continue to cut rates, you know,
at least one more time. It's just this
gradual ongoing softening that's keeping
the Fed on edge.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores don't look good this
morning. We're down by 0.7% on the S&P
500, negative on the NASDAQ by more than
one percentage point. In the bond
market, twos, 10, [music] 30s. This bond
market is not rallying. Yields are
higher by a basis point on 10, up by
almost two on 30s. Over the next week, a
big focus on the earnings. [music]
Nvidia top of mind, but a major focus on
a consumer. We should get some jobless
claims next Thursday. And in the mix,
numbers from Home Depot, from Target,
[music] from Walmart. This is the
perfect encapsulation of the K-shaped
economy through some of the earnings
reports that we're going to get next
week. A real question for Walmart and
Target of how much they're able to pass
along their price increases [music] to
consumers, whether people are
downshifting into lower priced items,
other types of uh elements of concern
[music] that you would see at a point of
some sort of inflection, particularly to
the weaker side. On the flip side, we
can get a gut check from Nvidia. How
much is the AI hopes and dreams of 2025
continuing to power all of the earnings
that we're seeing in the AI sphere and
can continue to deliver some sort of
upswing to markets even in the face of
potentially softer consumer spending.
>> Just every day when you [music] see this
kind of draw down, there's one stock I
check. How's Apple doing? Apple just
seen some relative outperformance here
and there when you have these kind of
aggressive draw downs. They were
criticized about a month, two months ago
for sitting out of the massive capex
spend, [music] not leaning hard enough
into AI. All of a sudden, some jitters
around that story and Apple's talking
about a better iPhone sales story going
into year end and the holiday season and
it looks like a relatively better
picture now for that company.
>> Apple is oddly the uncorrelated tech
[music] stock because they didn't
necessarily go allin on artificial
intelligence the same kind of way. So
for people who are worried about the
overbuild in data center land or
potentially the overspend in Oracle and
OpenAI land, well Apple AI, Apple is not
necessarily part of that because they're
not Apple AI. NASDAQ futures this
morning down by 1.2%. Session lows right
now. The S&P as [music] well, we're down
by 0.8%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark as valuation [music] jitters
rattle investors, Sarah Biani of
Evercore as the White House pivots to
affordability, and Alejandra Grindle of
Ned Davis Research as Verizon moves to
cut perhaps up to 20,000 jobs. We begin
this out with stocks losing ground.
Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark warning
against chasing this market. She writes,
"We have seen this story before. Breath
deterioration coupled with bullish
sentiment can lead to 5 to 10% pullbacks
and we wouldn't be surprised if the
story repeated itself here. Victoria
joins us now for more. Victoria,
welcome. I'm going to kick things off
with the same question that I asked
George Canalas about an hour ago. Have
you ever seen a freakout like this one
over a 2 to 3% pullback on the S&P 500?
Yeah, I mean yes, we have seen these
pullbacks before and it was what you
were just talking about when we have
that breath deterioration in this market
when you have this internal weakness
kind of bubbling under the surface but
at the same time you have this for lack
of a better word you have this
exuberance you have this um sentiment
that is extremely bullish at some point
those two worlds start to collide and
you see this pullback but look Jonathan
we are still not that far below all-time
highs really when we look at the markets
as a whole. So, I still think there's
probably some room to see more pullback,
especially when you're seeing small caps
down as much as they are. We know the
tech stocks kind of led this rally. We
see them leading the pullback we're
having here. But I do think some of the
internal weakness is driving this and
the fact that the government shutdown is
now over. I think investors are starting
to look and go, "Wait a minute. We've
been ignoring some of these facts that
have been out here, some of these
warning signs. Now they're starting to
pay attention to it and we're getting a
little bit of a consolidation of a
correction here.
>> This is going to sound slightly cliche,
but I'm going to run with it. Just how
strong are the hands in this market
right now, Victoria? I was listening to
Amy Woo Silverman of RBC earlier on this
morning. She tuned into Bloomberg radio
and she phoned in and she said something
like, "I would describe people at the
moment as fully invested bears. How
fragile has the buying actually been?"
>> I think that's a great description of
where a lot of investors are. It's where
a lot of our clients I think feel like
they are because we tell them you want
to be invested in this market. The pull
down that we've seen so far has not
changed the trends. The trends are still
higher. Until we see the trends change,
we see negative relative performance
coming out of some of these leadership
um sectors and staples start to perform
a lot better then I think you continue
to see the market although it will churn
you will continue to see it move higher.
And that's why you want to be invested
in the market. But there are these
warning signals. We haven't been getting
the data. We're about to get it. What is
it going to tell us? Is it going to say
we're weaker than what we thought some
of the private data was actually telling
us? If so, then yes, you will continue
to have some spaces where you want to
put some defensive components in your
portfolio. So, it does make sense. It is
fully invested, but a little bit of a
bearish outlook. Victoria, just to build
on what John was asking about, it does
seem like institutional investors are
fully invested, especially if they
missed out on the rally earlier this
year. It does seem low though like there
is retail selling. And when you take a
look at some of the high momentum sides
of the market, that's what's led the
draw down. It raises this question.
Earlier this year, uh retail and buying
actually led to the upside and investors
chased that. Is this going to be the
reverse of that? retail selling and then
eventually institutions chasing that as
well or are they stepping in to actually
pick this up?
>> Yeah, unfortunately I think you do see a
lot of the retail investors chasing that
market and like you said the reverse
right now institutional investors tend
to take a little bit of a longer term
approach and so they are slower to move
on some of these changes. They look and
say what are we looking at 3 6 9 12
months out. Retail investors tend to be
a little bit more emotional investors
and so you see things change more
quickly and more turnover in some of
those portfolios. We have said all along
don't chase this market. Let it come to
you. There's going to be an opportunity
here because of the weakness that we saw
in breath and internally that the
market's going to come to you and that's
what it's doing right now. So I would
actually take this as an opportunity to
add to some of the names that you've
liked some of the sectors that you're
starting to see troughs and see
uptrends. We've talked about them
before. You look at healthcare, you look
at the big banks, you look at some of
the materials components and the metals
that are there. And even energy, we saw
about 40% of the S&P energy sector
actually make three-month highs earlier
this week. So, I think there's some
places you can play. Institutional
investors will start stepping into that.
Um, but retail investors tend to be a
little bit more emotional and move with
what they're seeing in the headlines.
You didn't mention tech, Victoria, and I
do think that we have to focus on that
given the fact that not only has the
tone shifted, but there's been a shift
in the fundamentals of some of these
companies. Not that they're not earning
tons of money, but it does seem like the
debt issuance of the past few months has
really caused some concern. You are
seeing bond markets start to push back.
You're seeing concessions in some of the
new issue market. You are seeing some
bonds lose a ton of value, particularly
from Oracle. I'm just wondering if this
is a warning shot to you that there has
been a material shift in the tech sector
and greater risk going forward.
>> It's definitely a warning signal, Lisa.
You know, we watch spreads very closely
um in the bond market. They are a
warning signal that canary in the coal
mine uh to tell you what's happening.
And we've seen the widening over the
last month and even over the last
quarter year to date we're about equal
at this point in time. We had been
extremely tight. We've seen spreads
widen out. And yes, when it comes to
tech, you're seeing large issuance come
out. And it's been a question for a
while. How are a lot of these companies
going to pay for what they're saying
they're going to do? And is how is that
going to affect a affect free cash flow?
How is that going to affect their debt
ratios? And we're seeing some of that
come to fruition. Now, we're seeing some
concerns about what that means longer
term, especially if we're not getting
the revenue generation that a lot of
these companies say they're going to. So
definitely something to watch and to be
careful on um when you're looking at the
debt market.
>> These companies, Victoria, seem
absolutely determined to spend. They've
said that repeatedly. They are
determined not to underinvest and they
don't mind taking the risk of
overinvesting. Do you really see this
market in a position at the moment at
least to inflict discipline on those
hyperscalers who are absolutely
determined to spend hundreds of billions
of dollars on this effort?
>> Yeah, discipline is an interesting word,
Jonathan. I'm not sure that they are um
these uh investors right now look at
these companies and they believe what
they're telling them. They're saying,
"Okay, even though we saw free cash flow
take Nvidia out of the equation, down
almost 20% year-over-year for a lot of
these companies, and now we're seeing
debt issuance move higher, investors
still say they're going to be able to do
what they're doing." You heard Lisa Sue
this week talk about 80% revenues from
data centers for the next three to five
years, year-over-year. That's a lot of
uh positivity coming from these
companies, but yet at the same time,
we're hearing uh builders can't deliver
on data centers. We're not there's not
enough energy and power for some of
these data centers. So, I would be a
little more skeptical than maybe the
average investor is, but you know, I'm a
bond girl at heart, so that makes sense
that I would be a little more cautious.
Um, but I do think for now they are
taking these companies at their word
because their earnings are supporting
it. The minute we don't see earnings
supportive, that's when I think you'll
see it all flip.
>> Victoria, so how are you handling this?
Are you selling tech stocks and selling
the bonds as well? Are you buying the
stocks, selling the credit? How are you
playing it?
>> Yeah, so we're trimming on some of our
uh big tech names, but also we want to
stay within, you know, we have
parameters within the benchmark of where
we need to be on these. And because
there's such strong holdings in the
benchmark, we can't just eliminate these
holdings completely. You have to have
exposure to them. But we are taking the
opportunity to put it to work in other
areas both on the equity side and on
debt. Um and looking at that debt like
seven to 10 years out, we're starting to
see the yield curve steepen. That 2 to
30 spread was a like sub 100 and now
we're about 115. So we're starting to
steepen a little bit. It's good for
financials. That's our main area of
where we're looking, but we're also
looking at healthcare, buying some uh
bonds and some equity there. And then
like I said, looking at materials a
little bit as well. I think those areas
on both sides of the equation you can
have in your portfolio.
>> Victoria, thank you. Appreciate your
take as always. Victoria Fernandez, a
bond girl, her own words. Victoria
Fernandez of Crossmark. If you are a
bond person, you'll be looking at this
situation and it'll get your radar up.
That's for sure.
>> Well, you took a look yesterday at
Oracle say 30-year bonds and they
plummeted. They're 92 cents. They were
at 100 cents about a month ago on the
dollar. And it raises this question of
how much push back has there actually
been and going forward will will this
reduce some of the hopes and dreams of
some of the more speculative players.
There was another one uh applied uh data
technologies that came out and had to
sell uh bonds at a huge discount in
order to get some of the investor
appetite up. So again you are seeing
push back and that is a different tone
in markets. I
>> keep going back to that Sam Alman
interview. I just found I know I keep
going back to I just found it so so
awkward just asked a very direct simple
reasonable question. Your revenues here,
your spending commitments are right out
there and they're really really big. How
do you get from here to here? How does
one inform and support the other? Just a
non-answer. Sell your stock if you want
to. Like I just I found that really
uncomfortable for a moment we're in with
the valuations we have. That's not the
right answer.
>> Faith-based investing may work for
certain asset classes in particular tied
to equity. They do not work for bonds
and that is what you're seeing when it
comes to Oracle. Even people are worried
about Microsoft and how much they're
tied to Open AI and how much their
valuations uh highlight the losses that
Open III is expecting to have going to
2030. They're not expecting to turn a
profit until then. So again, it
highlights exactly what you're talking
about, a sort of gap in balance sheet
logic.
>> Losses picking up this morning. We're
down by 0.9% on the S&P 500, down lower,
even more than 100 so far this morning.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara for more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Verizon is discussing plans to
announce job cuts that could downsize
the company by as much as 20%. [music]
The planned cuts could impact up to
20,000 workers and are part of an
aggressive strategy [music] to reclaim
market share. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the company is also planning
to convert [music] 200 company owned
stores to franchises. Meanwhile,
Minneapolis Fed President Neil Kashkari
joins other Fed officials who have
expressed skepticism over the need for
another cut in December. [music]
Kashkari said he didn't support the last
interest rate cut. Some Fed officials
are arguing for holding rates steady to
balance inflation and weaker hiring in
the labor market. And Blue Origin
launched its New Glenn rocket to [music]
space and successfully deployed two
Marsbound NASA spacecraft yesterday. The
rocket's [music] booster separated from
its upper stage, descended back to
Earth, and landed on a barge in the
Atlantic Ocean after firing engines to
slow itself [music] down. The successful
mission puts Blue Origin on track to
challenge SpaceX's grip on the launch
industry. Dr. Brief, John
>> Yara, thank you. Very cool. I will
always be impressed by that. Thank you.
More from Yhara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, making
America affordable.
>> Affordability, they call it was a conj
job by the by the Democrats. My
administration and our partners in
Congress will continue our work to lower
the cost of living, grow our economy,
and make America affordable again.
>> Up next, Sarah Bianke of Everore live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> session lows right now. We're down by
0.9% on the S&P 500. Down by more than
that on the NASDAQ 100, negative by
[music] 1.3. A snapshot of some of the
tech players in the pre-market. Nvidia
not having a good morning. Down by about
3%, Palanteer down by something like
four. Lisa, these losses are building.
Yeah, and they bu we're building more
aggressively in some of the more
speculative and highly levered to the AI
trade. [music] As you go and you see
some of the ones that are the most
speculative in terms of how much they're
borrowing and how much they plan to
invest [music] in the future, this is
the push back that people have been
talking about. So now the question is
how much [music] is this just simply
vibes and how much is this real with
respect to a changing structure of the
entire tech stack [music] given the fact
that their hopes and dreams have a price
tag?
>> Fair to say this morning the vibes
aren't good as the losses pick up.
[music] just teasing out a bond market
rally. Just a little bit of one at the
front end of the curve. We're down by
two basis points [music] on twos. On
tens, now down by two to about 4108.
[music] That's a fresh development in
the last 20 minutes or so.
>> Yeah, right now people still looking for
a haven and some kind of income. This is
the conundrum. How much can US
government bonds continue to provide
[music] a haven given the fact that
30-year bonds still are priced at uh
giving you a 4.7% yield? So, some people
might say, well, clip your coupon and be
happy. The 10-year [music] and 30-year
yield just falling just at the moment.
Coming back in off the back of those
losses in the equity market. Under
Sanders this morning, making America
affordable.
Affordability, they call it was a conj
job by the by the Democrats. We did a
great job on groceries and
affordability. The only problem is the
fake news. You people don't want to
report it. My administration and our
partners in Congress will continue our
work to lower the cost of living,
restore public safety, grow our economy,
and make America affordable again.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump pivoting to
affordability after boasting about his
administration's economic
accomplishments. The White House now
making a push for a tariff deal,
announcing new deals with countries in
Latin America and potentially elsewhere.
Bloomberg's Mika SA joins us now for
more. Mika, welcome to the program.
Welcome back, I should say. Can you
describe the agreements that have been
struck over the last day or so?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the White
House is really looking to push new
tariff deals in order to collect some of
the revenue that they think is going to
basically explode from their uh deals
from all around the world. And with
that, they are pitching the idea of
sending $2,000 dividend checks to
Americans. Uh that's very much in line
with the idea to distract from cost of
living, give people hope, while
Democrats continue to hammer the message
of quote unquote affordability to
people.
>> M we're talking about coffee and food
stuff coming from places like Brazil,
Colombia, Vietnam. Have we heard from
the administration about how much
they're willing to do to bring tariffs
down on some of those goods?
You know, the White House has been very
guarded on this issue, and I think that
they're still hammering out the details,
but I do I do know that one thing that
they're really trying to do is ensure
that uh looking at the long-term effects
of terrorists rather than potentially
the short-term economic pain that uh
Americans might feel when it comes to
the uptick of cost of living, but I know
that they're looking for solutions
long-term and saying that this is
overall going to be better for the
country. So, that's the message we're
hearing right now with details still
hammering out.
>> Look for the details into the weekend.
Mika, thank you. Mika Sona down in
Washington DC. Let's build on the
conversation. Sarah Baki of Ever writing
this. A White House pivot back to the
issue of affordability won't be
perfectly disciplined or linear and some
things will run counter as tariffs
remain a favorite policy tool. Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, Lisa and I
were talking about the messaging of all
of this. How do you massage the message
of all of this that you talk about
affordability and the first thing you
consider is to bring down tariffs which
you also simultaneously don't believe
push up costs?
Well, it's complicated. Look, this is
complicated. President Biden had some of
the same challenges. It's just really
hard to reduce costs in a lot of ways.
But obviously, this administration has a
tool that he didn't have, which is uh to
bring down some of her uh their own
tariffs. I do think the deals uh with
some of the Latin American countries
give you a signal of somewhere where
they're going. They did put uh not to
get too wonky, but uh annex 3, a list of
food goods that were supposed to be
eligible to be tariff-free uh for
countries that had a final trade
arrangement with the administration. Uh
obviously, they're just kind of uh
lowering the standards of who gets that
deal and uh really trying to uh put some
relief uh in the food space. Again, an
area where a lot of Americans uh notice
when things aren't uh as cheap as they
want. Sarah, a lot of the rhetoric seems
to push back against a number of the
policy prescriptions that we heard from
President Trump earlier this year. And I
just wonder, it sounds like you're
skeptical that this truly is a wholesale
pivot point. Nonetheless, how much are
you looking for different types of
policies, whether it's reducing some of
the tariffs or potentially a $2,000
check at the beginning of next year? How
much you expecting these types of policy
prescriptions in the face of midterm
elections?
>> Oh, I think it's very serious. I think
he's very serious about a rebate check.
Um I think you know we saw at first
Secretary Bessant pushed back pretty
hard on the concept on Sunday and since
then he's kind of uh softened his tone a
little bit. I think uh it's very much a
space where they uh will look they're
going to have to you know size it get it
through the Congress and reconciliation
a lot of steps to happen and then you
know try to figure out are they really
going to spend uh all particularly in
the wake of of of what might be an
unhelpful court case uh on tariffs uh
but I think on the tariff rates
themselves I think they're going to find
places for uh relief like we're seeing
in food I don't expect them to say, "Oh,
forget it. You know, sorry about the
steel tariffs. We didn't mean to do
that." Or uh something like that. I
think they're going to look for a relief
house in in particularly sensitive
areas.
>> Just to underscore the point, how much
was an inflection point with the
elections that we just saw, the sort of
mid midterm elections uh that did point
to pretty big Democratic wins. How much
does this really mark a change in the
president's policies going forward?
>> I think it was very real. It's not that
these first year after elections are I
mean they were blue states etc etc uh
but the scope and and the size of the
win and the voters uh who Trump just won
12 months ago in you know New Jersey was
an undercovered story in how close it
was in 2024. So uh these voters coming
back clearly and so uh central uh even
at a time when the Democratic party is
uh having its own uh historic set of
challenges uh still voters were willing
to vote for these candidates. So I think
uh you've watched the president kind of
uh uh you know all over the place a
little bit rhetorically saying it's fake
news but also exploring you know a lot
of ideas. Uh I think it's very big pivot
moment for the white house. So there are
a number of different inputs to CPI and
one of them and has been a good uh one
contributor to the disinflation that
we've seen has been energy prices. How
much do you expect some of the policies
around the data center buildout in the
United States to start shifting or
potentially encourage deregulation of
the energy sector even further in order
to cushion some of the price increases
that we're seeing in certain areas that
are closer in proximity to data centers?
>> It's a huge issue. The president uh
you're right has always been focused on
low energy costs but he's always really
been about gas and oil and this is a
different issue. This is electricity uh
and it's very hard issue to get at. It's
largely state uh regulated uh FK does
have some oversight but um it it's going
to have to be sorted with the states and
uh there are ways to solve it. We've
seen places where, you know, some of
these data center builders have pretty
deep pockets and so they can actually
help fund rather than passing on costs.
But we saw this as an issue in Virginia.
We saw it in New Jersey and I expect
you're going to see it even more around
the country. Uh for the president, it's
a little bit challenging because the the
policy tools are a bit more longdated,
but uh and they do come uh part of the
solutions or one of the pieces is more
wind and solar. uh never a favorite
topic of his but I expect they'll pivot
uh in this space as well.
>> Sarah, thank you. Sarah Biani of Everot.
That's a lot of pivots. With these kind
of things, you can see into the future
and you can already see that we're
already behind. You can see into the
future because there is a duration
mismatch. You can dig a hole and build
the building very very quickly to get
the energy that supports it. You need to
have built that a long time ago or at
least started to build it. We're already
behind.
>> Yeah. Which really uh goes to the
question of who's going to bear the
brunt of this. We are seeing certain
sectors, certain regions in the United
States where people are paying higher
costs for electricity. Will some of the
hyperscalers [music] be forced to bear
the brunt of this and actually pick up
the bill and that point that Sariaki
made I think is a really important one.
>> We can of course change the future but
you know like [music] there's a lot of
work to do. Let's put it that way. Up
next on the program, Alejandra Gindle of
Ned Davis Research as Verizon weighs up
to 20,000 [music]
job cuts. That's next.
>> [music]
>> Stocks are down [music] across the
board. We're negative by 0.8% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, we're down by
1.3. The losses are building up. It
includes the small caps. The [music]
Russell down by88%.
So, a riskoff posture so far this
morning now backed up by developments in
the bond market. Yield starting [music]
to fall across the curve. Twos out to
30s, twos, 10 tens, 30s. Now down by
about four basis points at the front end
[music] and on the 10ear as well. Let's
call this a break of 4.1% in about the
last 10 minutes.
>> Yeah, and you could say that this is
just uh showing how much the risk
[music] aversion is broadening and the
knee-jerk response to buy bonds is
prevalent. At the same time, the Verizon
news that you cited earlier to me
highlights how much we see a
disinflationary tilt from some of the
efficiencies [music] from companies.
They'd rather cut jobs than try to raise
prices substantially and lose customers.
That is a Fed story and that is a bond
story.
>> So that takes the temperature of the US
story and maybe the global backdrop for
risk this morning. Let's take the
temperature of the UK right now. We've
talked about the price of chaos
volatility. This [music] market's been
wild so far today. Yields are up on a
10-year guilt by nine basis points.
We're up by double digits [music] at one
point. Sterling, we want the range on
sterling today. The low 131, the high
132. This morning 13152, somewhere in
between. Honestly, this is such a tricky
story because at what point will the UK
[music] have to raise taxes as guilt
yields go up? Essentially, the higher
yields go, the more they're going to
have to try to plug the gap that they
have imposed on themselves with certain
fiscal caps. So, it raises this question
and Gita Goponath formerly of the IMF
currently of Harvard. I keep going back
to this op-ed she wrote in the Financial
Times where she [music] said this fiscal
instability has created a crisis of its
own making. the people that pe that the
fact that [music] investors don't
understand the fiscal response mechanism
to any kind of increase in bond yields.
You know, it just creates this real
cycle of doom and that seems to be
what's taking place in the
>> really really bad communication. The
marketing from this Labor government has
been [music] absolutely abysmal every
step of the way. It's just scaring
people. When they came in first of all
and said there's this massive black hole
and then they started spending loads of
money on public sector pay rises and
then had to increase taxes aggressively
and then said we won't do that again.
And we spent the whole summer, think
about the message you're sending to the
British [music] consumer over the
summer. We spent the whole summer coming
right into the fall telling people that
this tax might go up, [music] that tax
might go up. Oh, if you're super
wealthy, there might be an exit tax.
That tax is going to go up. This tax is
going to go up. What are you going to do
in between? I've got a good idea. I'm
going to invest lots of money in the
British economy. I'm going to make a
5year, 10 year, 15, 20 year trade on the
UK [music] right now. Who in their right
mind would make that kind of decision if
this is your backdrop [music] for taking
risk in the UK?
>> No, what they're doing is they're buying
real estate in other countries and
that's actually what's happening in a in
a broader s a broader spectre. At the
same time, the fact that they're
benchmarking a lot of their projections
to [music] the market and to bond yields
and how much that increases their fiscal
gap highlights how much they are in this
sort of cycle where they have to plug a
gap at some point because they're going
to have to raise taxes to pay for the
bond yields that are going up in respect
to their fiscal discussion.
>> Sterling right now 13153. [music]
We're down by about a third of 1%. As we
count you down to the opening bell about
2 hours away, let's get you some morning
movers with Yhierra. Heyra. Hi, John. We
start with Warner Brothers Discovery.
Shares are rising 2.8% [music]
on growing conviction a buyout is
coming. That's because the Wall Street
Journal is reporting that Paramount,
[music] Sky Dance, Comcast, and Netflix
are all preparing bids ahead of a
November 20th deadline. Meanwhile, here
are the stocks getting hit this morning,
the tech stocks getting hit this morning
as markets remain on edge. Tesla,
Nvidia, and Alphabet [music] are the
biggest decliners among the MAG 7. This
is coming as hopes fader [music] for a
December rate cut and without that it's
tough to justify these tech stocks high
valuations. But Nvidia could report
spectacular results this next week
[music] and then we're off to the races
once again. And we end on some M&A
action. We are seeing Sedara Therapeutic
shares rising [music]
100%. Merc is buying the company in a
$9.2 billion deal. And we've seen a
[music] lot of deals like this in the
pharma space as these companies look to
refill their pipelines [music] for Merc.
The issue is that it's blockbuster key
cancer drug
will soon face competition from Generic.
[music] So it was willing to pay up for
Sedara paying double what it closed at
yesterday. That's what you're [music]
seeing. Shares up more than 100%. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. Massive move.
Absolutely massive move. Appreciate it.
Thank you very much. On a radar this
morning, our top story, the White House
unveiling framework agreements with
Argentina, Guatemala, El Salvador, and
Ecuador to reduce tariffs on common
grocery items. The trade deals will see
tariff reductions on beef, bananas, and
on coffee beans. Elsewhere, Paramount,
Comcast, and Netflix preparing bids for
Warner Brothers Discovery. The Wall
Street Journal reporting the deadline to
submit non-binding bids is November
20th. Warner Brothers hoping to complete
the auction process by the end of the
year. And finally, Oracle taking a hit
in the recent sell-off as fears grow
over its mounting AI debt. The software
giant shares are down nearly 30% over
the past month. The slide reversing more
than $250 billion in gains since
disclosing deals with OpenAI in
September.
>> Let's talk about the debt. So, right
now, Oracle has about $96 billion of
long-term debt. That is up from $75
billion a year ago. Morgan Stanley
predicts that this amount of debt will
go to $290 billion by 2028. Right? So
that's three years away. Uh that we
could see that kind of tripling in their
overall debt load. What is it going
toward? That is the key question. How
much are they hinged to open AI on the
story that has been deeply unsatisfying
for people that yes, they're not going
to turn a profit to 2030, but they
expect to spend hundreds of billions of
dollars in some of the outgrowth of data
centers. This is the difficulty and
Oracle is almost the leveraged play on
how much people have a sentiment for
open AI and how much tolerance they have
to really issuing a lot of debt.
>> So I've seen the same moves and I was
thinking is this code red? So I reached
out to Robert Schiffman of Bloomberg
Intelligence who covers the credit
story. You know him well fantastic guy.
He said yes we've seen a massive move in
CDS but he thinks it's more about
technicals on hedging all this new debt
versus fundamental concerns that credit
is going to junk. So I said to him keep
me in check. When we get to code red let
me know. He doesn't think we're there
just yet.
>> Well, certainly not Code Red, but
certainly maybe a little bit of the
sheen has come off the bloom.
Absolutely. The bloom has come off the
rose. There is a feeling right now. I
mean, if you take a look at the oracle
debt longterm, it's been affected by the
fact that duration has sold off. So,
it's not just a question of the
creditworthiness. Nonetheless, there is
more skepticism. And I keep going to
back to Applied Digital, which is an a
high yield rated company that tried to
come to market yesterday with some notes
uh with some bonds. And they had to
offer a 10% yield in order to sell it.
They provide some of the data center uh
products to Coreweave, also a high yield
rated company that provides some of
their uh their services to OpenAI. You
start looking at how circular this
becomes and you start wondering at what
point are we going to see a lot of weak
players and that I think is what the
market's trying to sus out.
>> There's some push back, Lisa. I'm
totally there with you in the credit
market and it's spilling over to equity
as well. Equity futures down this
morning by about 1% on the S&P 500.
Let's turn to the labor market. Verizon
discussing plans to cut about 20% of its
workforce, potentially impacting up to
20,000 workers. People familiar with the
matter telling Bloomberg cuts could come
at every level of the business.
Alejandra Gundle of Net Davis Research
joins us now for more. Alejandra,
welcome to the program. Let's get into
some of this. So, I see these big flashy
headlines from the likes of Verizon. It
looks awful. And then I see the state
level jobless claims and they look okay.
What's the state of the labor market
from your vantage point?
>> Oh, thanks for having me again. So, um,
you know, obviously we're not getting
the non-farm payrolls data, so we're not
getting the clear number that we're used
to, but we're able to sort of cobble
together a lot of data, including, um,
layoffs. I know the challenger layoff
announcements, um, really freaked a lot
of people out because it was an
unusually high number. Um but on balance
when we sort of put the numbers together
for the month of October um we're
looking at very modest gains in
payrolls. Um so not quite as dire as the
numbers some of these headlines suggest
but very much in line with what we've
been seeing in the you know prior months
that we're just not seeing the job
creation that we had before. There is a
problem going forward at least briefly
Alejandra going forward when we get the
economic data we won't get unemployment
we will get payrolls and payrolls has
been the concerning thing and if you can
take some comfort from anything in the
labor market still a relatively low
unemployment rate how will you digest
the incoming data in the next few weeks
with that in mind
>> um oh just overall that there's going to
be some data missing
>> um well yeah you know at least and I
think I mentioned this last time I spoke
to you guys is we haven't been
completely in the dark Um, within the
United States, there's still a fair
share of private sector data, Fed data
that we've been able to work with. Um,
so yeah, I I I think we're going to look
at that number, but when you compare it
to other data that we've been getting in
recent months, um, I think we're still
not getting that bad of a picture. And
as I mentioned before, I think it's
consistent with, you know, maybe not
this enormous decline of the labor
market, but definitely weakness that I
think still, you know, pushes the Fed to
maybe consider cutting in December. How
much does the weakness that we've seen
in the labor market encourage you to
downplay any kind of inflationary risk?
And I'm pointing to the likes of
Verizon, the idea that why are they
cutting people? They are cutting people
so they can compete on price so that
they can lower prices or keep them
steady for consumers because they are
losing consumers because of price. How
much is this a theme versus an
idiosyncratic incident?
>> Well, you know, it's it's a there's a
broad array of risk to look at that the
Fed has to deal with. Obviously,
inflation being one of them. Um but with
respect to the economy, I mentioned
obviously they started cutting because
um they started cutting rates to begin
with because the job market's not as
strong as it was before and we're still
seeing signs of that with this other
data we've been able to put together. I
think another key takeaway too is Main
Street is hurting. So, even though we
can often look at financial conditions
and they look okay, u Main Street, the
average American just isn't doing as
well and they're very sensitive to Fed
interest rates. Um they're sensitive to
mortgage rates. Um they're sensitive to
housing prices, credit conditions, we're
seeing delinquency rates rise. Um so, so
that's sort of that underlying issue
that the Fed has to address. Um, in
terms of the inflation story, I mean,
yes, we do expect inflation to stay um
at least above uh what the Fed's target
is anticipating um say over the next six
months at least. Um some of it obviously
reflects the tariff side of things, some
of the deportations. Um but long-term
inflation expectations remain anchored.
And I think it's also really important
to keep in mind that the Fed funds rate
is still, you know, contractionary,
right? So it's still above neutral. So,
I still think there's some room um for
the Fed to cut policy and, you know,
sort of sort of help that main street,
help that labor market um get in a
better position over the next few
months.
>> Over the past few days, we've seen a bit
of a wobble in the tech sector. And this
has been the sector of support for the
overall economy and for GDP more
broadly. And I just wonder how difficult
it would be for this economy to keep
expanding if you see this wobble,
continue to expand both on stock prices,
but also some of the dynamism expected
from these names. Oh, absolutely. I mean
that that that's really what's holding
us, right? So, um the consumer on
aggregate continues to spend, but this
is the higherend consumer. The higherend
consumer is tied to the stock market.
Stock market has been doing well. You
know, obviously not the past couple of
days, but um has been doing well because
of the tech sector. So, there's
definitely this feedback loop and I
would even using a technical term within
the economy very weak breath. So, it
makes you vulnerable to a potential
downside. Um, on the other hand, there
still could be a lot of huge benefits
from artificial intelligence and
technology. We're seeing it ourselves in
our firm and especially as not just the
United States, but other developed
markets are sort of facing this future
of a waning labor force. Um, we need
this productivity which could be boosted
by AI um, you know, to to ultimately
increase our growth potential at the end
of the day. So, you know, there's
there's definitely an upside coming from
it. And as I said, I think we're seeing
it. A lot of other people are seeing it
as well. But it does make, you know, the
market and households very very
vulnerable if things were to tip over.
>> It's making them nervous already.
Alejandra Gundall of Ned Davis Research.
Alejandra, thank you. It's good to see
you as always. It's making people very
nervous. I keep going back to that line
from Luke Cower. Luke making the point
that it's regressive upfront and that's
the problem right now for consumers, for
Americans and of course for the
politicians who are going to have to
really wrestle with this going into next
year.
>> Yeah. And as long as there is patience
in the investing world where people are
willing to finance it both in the equity
side of things as well as the debt side
of things, then the regressiveness of it
can be masked by high valuations and
some of the dynamism in the buildout. If
that softens, how much is that going to
be a painful year or two in order to
rightsize the economy to some of the
technological promise?
>> It's softening this morning. The
NASDAQ's down by 1.6%, the S&P lower by
more than one percentage point with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira. Hi,
Yhira.
>> Hi, John. The BBC has apologized to
President Trump for the way it edited
his January 6, 2021 [music]
speech for a documentary after the
president's lawyers called it
defamatory. The news organization said
it strongly disagrees there is a basis
for a defamation claim. The Trump team
has threatened a $1 billion lawsuit.
Meanwhile, unionized Starbucks baristas
launched a wave of walkouts yesterday.
The strike involving more than 1,000
[music] baristas at 65 cafes was tied to
Starbucks annual Red Cup Day promotion
and is the latest escalation in the
union's efforts to ramp up pressure on
the coffee [music] chain. The union
accuses Starbucks of refusing to fairly
negotiate while Starbucks has denied
wrongdoing.
And Apple unveiled its new digital ID
system, which allows users to add a copy
of their passport on their device.
Travelers can scan their Apple wallet at
airport readers and use the copy if they
don't have a real ID. The company warned
[music]
that this does not replace a physical
passport and can't be used for inter
international travel or crossing
borders. That's been [music] brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. That's quite cool.
That's a big win for Apple. That is on
the security front.
>> Oh, I would completely agree. I mean,
how nice is it? Think about waiting on
the line and you have a phone in your
hand cuz you're looking at news and it's
always in your hand. Exactly. So, you're
you're looking at your phone and all of
a sudden you get up to the counter and
you have to take out your bag and you
have to pull out your ID. You got to
hand it to them. This way you could just
say and then you could keep just getting
addicted to your phone.
>> How long before we do that on the
international front?
>> I don't know. That's a tricky thing.
Hopefully we get there soon on that
front too. Up next on the program,
negotiating new deals.
>> We're seeing new corridors opening up
and and the scale of ambitions, not just
in China, are higher than we see really
in in many other parts of the world.
>> They want you to have like 20 pages
[music] so they can stamp them all, you
know,
>> on the in on the inbound and the
outbound. Why did the outbound? What is
this the passport control? I don't
understand.
>> Why do you care so much about who's
leaving?
>> Why do you want to keep in the
criminals? I don't get it.
>> Let them go.
>> Exactly. Hey, someone else's problem.
>> 100%. I don't get it.
>> I [music] I'm I'm right there with you.
It's tighter on the way out sometimes
than it is on the the way in.
>> It's worse. 100%. And it sort of like is
what is this? Job security.
>> Experienced that in Italy. This was a
good rant. Enjoyed that. All right. Up
next, the former senior White House
trade adviser, Kellyanne Shaw, joins us
in just a moment from a beautiful New
York City. [music] You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Stuart Kaiser City pointing this out.
Just published saying flash flood of
poor news in the last 24 hours. It's
dragging this equity market down. We're
down by 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 1.5. I have to say to
[music] take a step back from some of
this. The poor news is just that the
markets moved lower and it seems to be
price shaping the narrative because I
can't can't really point to one single
thing that says you [music] know what
that's the reason this equity market was
down hard yesterday and down again this
morning.
>> Is it a [music] vibes issue? Is this
something where people are suddenly just
concerned about the debt outgrowth of
some of the tech names and that's sort
of leading everything into a spiral in
addition to job cuts [music] and in
addition to some softer than expected
economic news. I don't know. That's
really to be uh to be seen. Can this
market tolerate a couple of high-profile
blowups? [music] That is what I want to
know. If there are weaker hands that do
ultimately suffer real pain,
>> it took a while for this bond market to
start rallying. You're starting to see
it now at the front end of the curve and
through the belly. [music] On fives,
we're down about five basis points. On
10ens, we're down about four. Down four
basis points. Also at the front end of
the [music] curve at 355.
Look, the one thing holding up the
aggregate numbers in the economy right
now is the high-income consumer. And
based on a sentiment survey, the only
reason a high-income consumer is happy
right now is [music] because of the
equity market. So to some extent, the
stock market move will shape perceptions
of what the Fed might do in the coming
months.
>> This economy has profoundly [music]
leveraged the AI bet and the optimism
that it's fueled both in equity markets
and beyond.
>> The equity market story pulling lower by
about 1% on the S&P and the bond market
yields down by four basis points. And
Sanders this morning negotiating new
deals.
We're seeing new corridors opening up um
and the scale of ambitions not just in
China are higher than we see really in
in many other parts of the world. I
think the the recent truce um has
brought some much needed and welcome um
stability. We're in a position now for
both sides that wanted to have a period
now where we can just we can move ahead.
>> So here's the latest this morning. Wall
Street watching for fresh trade deals
from the White House. The Trump
administration announcing new framework
agreements with Latin American countries
as talks continue with China. The former
White House senior trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw, writing, "One thing is
clear. Despite the shutdown, USR has
been extremely busy negotiating."
Kellyanne joins us now for more.
Kellyanne, welcome back. We've been
tracking this together since it started
back in early April. In fact, since the
election took place more than 12 months
ago. Are you seeing this administration,
the White House start to change course a
little bit?
>> Yeah, good morning. Thanks so much for
having me back on. I I see directionally
the White House continuing the strategy
that it started with, which is we are
going to impose these very high tariff
rates and then negotiate with trading
partners to try to land them at a place
that's a bit more reasonable. And so
they're continuing to do so,
notwithstanding the White House's
concern, which is clearly focused on the
issue of affordability, consumer
confidence, how much you're paying at
the grocery store. Um, now on top of
this, on top of those four deals that
were announced, plus we had South Korea,
that framework which was released last
night, a potential upcoming deal with
Switzerland, an interim deal potentially
with Brazil. Um, you're seeing the White
House tease a a more significant tariff
relief package, which would really hit
Americans at the grocery store. Now,
this would be a departure from where
they've been going, but I do think
directionally all along they've
anticipated that they would need to
course correct, that there would be
recalibrations where there had been
overcorrection. So, I think we're
starting to see the first part of this.
>> There's some contradictory messaging
here. You're well aware of that. On the
one hand, you're saying that tariffs
don't lead to higher prices. On the
other hand, you're saying we need to do
more on affordability. We're going to
drop tariffs. How do you massage the
messaging?
Yeah, there was always a little bit of
dissonance between these two messages
and this was always the White House's
case to make to the American people that
if we impose an average 15 to 20% tariff
on all goods coming from all countries,
that's not going to lead to higher
prices at the grocery store, it's not
going to make your vacations more
expensive. I think the American people
have always been a little bit skeptical
of this argument and this is something
the White House is going to have to
continue to message moving forward. Now
that said, what they'll point to is the
fact that we impose hundreds of billions
of dollars of tariffs in Trump 1.0 and
that did not lead to inflation. And if
you look at countries like India or
South Korea, which naturally have very
high tariff rates, they're not concerned
about that leading to inflation on a
day-to-day basis. So why would that
pattern hold in the United States? But I
do think voters are not quite there yet.
And this is something the White House is
going to have to navigate. Kellyanne,
how much is this argument a liability
for the White House when it comes to the
Supreme Court case? The idea that
they're arguing that this is a national
security issue while also talking about
reducing tariffs for cost of living
concerns.
Well, I think we've got a bunch of
different types of tariffs, some of
which are being challenged right now at
the Supreme Court, others which aren't.
And we've always had carveouts since the
beginning of certain product categories
like your iPhone, your laptops, some of
the pharmaceutical products and aircraft
and uh airplane parts have always had
different tariff treatment. So shifting
some of that around or targeting certain
food products I don't really think is
going to make that much of a difference
in terms of how the Supreme Court is
looking at this. Do you think though
that Kellyanne when you stop when you
talk to some of your clients there is a
feeling that maybe we've seen the peak
in terms of the tit fortat trade war
type of behavior just simply because the
cost of living concerns are starting to
trump the concern about national
security and the concern about getting
leverage internationally.
>> Well I think regardless of how voters
are viewing cost of living that we
effectively had reached sort of the peak
of this trade war to begin with. The
president was always going to come out
swinging at the beginning to make this
huge move to try to negotiate with every
country on earth and then land the plane
at a lower rate. And that's what we saw
him do in August. I think we're
beginning to see more and more tariff
reductions as part of these deals being
negotiated. But I wasn't expecting these
like huge swings moving forward. I think
this is effectively where the president
wants to land things and have the tariff
rate be on average at the end of his
four years. Now, I do think that
consumer confidence and affordability is
a significant issue for the White House,
which is why you're seeing them take
this head on as opposed to the prior
messaging which was more about don't
worry, the economy is doing great. Kind
of ignore how you feel. They're not
there now. They're they're headon
addressing this and I think that these
recalibrations on tariffs are a
reflection of that. Kellyanne, thanks
for joining us. Kellyanne Shaw there,
the former senior White House trade
advisor going through some of the
previous tariff relief. I always felt
that the relief for Apple, the carve out
was for Apple and the some of the relief
we've seen over the last year or so. A
lot of the relief, if any, has been for
Wall Street. This is a change. This is
relief directed right at Main Street.
And that's the change that I think
you've got to track going into next year
in the midterms,
>> especially because it's a complicated
thing to do. This is not as easy as just
saying, "Okay, we'll reduce the tariffs
and then prices go down." This is an
issue of an entire ecosystem that needs
to get back in uh into some sort of
order and there are price increases that
are not tied to tariffs. So, if things
start to get tied to tariffs that are
not necessarily sensitive to that, you
have lost control over both the message
as well as some of the inflation. So,
this is going to be a much more
difficult thing to nuance and say a
carve out for Apple or questions around
Nvidia's chips.
>> We've got to keep track of this equity
market as well. The NASDAQ 100's down by
1.5% just off session lows on the S&P
500. We're negative by 0.9%. Coming up,
we'll catch up with Daryl Krunk of Wells
Fargo, Jay Goldberg of Seapport,
Michelle Ma of Mastercard, and Monahan
of Edward Jones.
the volatility and the rotation that
we're seeing among single names is
healthy. The breadth picture under the
surface for the S&P [music] 500 is
actually starting to improve.
>> The Mag 7, you know, they just have to
sort of behave, right, in order for the
market not to have, you know, kind of
one of these major [music] scares.
>> I think equities are are still going up
15 to 20% from where they are over the
next year.
>> This bull market deserves the benefit of
the doubt.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music]
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
This stock market is not behaving. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning for our audience
worldwide. The third hour Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. And your
scores look like this. Equity futures
down across the board. On the S&P down
by almost 1% on the NASDAQ 100, we're
down by 1.4. The Russell negative by
more [music] than 1%. In the bond
market, twos, 10, 30s. Yields down
across the board. We're down by four on
10. Down by three on twos. I like Manny
made the observation earlier on in the
session that we [music] weren't getting
the bond market offset to the equity
market draw down. That changed about an
hour ago.
>> Yeah. As the risk aversion in stocks
started [music] to grow, you saw people
who start to revert back to that
long-term bond bet with this idea that
maybe we [music] would ultimately get a
slowdown in the overall economy that
would lead to lower bond yields. Look,
right now this is notable. It does feel
a little bit different even though it's
not that big of a draw down. You [music]
can't exactly say this is a correction.
We just saw the worst day for the NASDAQ
and the S&P going back to October 10th.
You see more selling and it is not just
in the stock market. It is also in the
credit markets which until [music] now
have been rock solid.
>> Tracking the latest from Cameron Christ
this morning. This is what he wrote in
the last 30 minutes or so. Some 135k
[music] of 10-year contracts traded in a
10-minute window 10-minute span a little
bit earlier this morning in the last
hour with the largest volume cluster
[music] of the week. He didn't see any
particular catalyst. Neither did I. But
evidently in his words, somebody came in
and said, "Mind."
>> Yeah. And I just keep going back to what
Bob Michael said [music] of JP Morgan
Asset Management. There's so much cash.
All you have to do is have a [music]
little bit of yield and people will
flood into it. And that is seems to be
what we saw earlier this morning.
>> Looking ahead to next week, lots of
earnings on deck on the calendar. We'll
see some retailers. Home Depot, Target,
Walmart, the tech monster, the giant
[music] Nvidia, they get earnings on
Wednesday. So, look out for that. This
morning we're talking about Verizon.
Let's talk about that company. The
message coming for from Verizon. The way
you've framed it, Lisa, I think you
framed it so well so far this morning.
The message coming from Verizon is by
bonds. Ultimately, there's [music] going
to be damage to the job market and we
can't pass on higher costs.
>> This is a company that has 100,000
employees. [music] They're talking about
potentially cutting about 20% or 20,000
uh number of 20,000 employees. And it
comes after losing market [music] share,
after seeing some of their customers
defect to the likes of T-Mobile or AT&T
because there were lower prices there.
How are they going to compete? They are
going to compete on price. How are they
going to do that? They're going to
become more efficient. How much is this
a Verizon story and how much is this an
economic story?
>> I mentioned some numbers next week. Of
course, Walmart in the mix next week on
[music] Thursday. This just crossing.
There's a headline for you, Bremo. New
leadership at Walmart.
>> This is actually really surprising.
Walmart CEO Doug McMillian is planning
[music] to retire. Uh they Walmart, the
company just named John Ferner, the new
chief executive officer. [music] And
this comes at a time of a lot of
transformation at Walmart. Walmart has
gone from catering to the low-end
consumer, the box stores that everyone
has relied on to increasingly ecommerce
catering to a higherend consumer [music]
and really deploying tech in a mass way.
This is a fascinating shift. a real
[music] curious I'm really curious to
see exactly what was behind him.
>> He will retire from his position as
president and CEO effective on the close
of business on January 31, [music] 2026
on February 1st, 2026. Mr. McMillan will
continue in his capacity [music] as an
executive officer of the company. He
will report to the chairman of the board
of directors and he will continue to be
employed as an associate [music] of the
company through January 31, 2027.
>> This is fascinating. Again, we have to
just emphasize Walmart is one of the
[music] biggest employers, if not the
biggest employer, private employer in
the United States. They are the biggest
retailer in the United States. They are
setting contracts and prices across the
world. Frankly, [music]
uh they have been a real question mark
when it comes to what is their strategy
going to be, what is their read through
in the economy. And at this moment
[music] to be having new leadership
again, this is really interesting. I'm
very curious to hear more color as it
comes out. Walmart this morning down by
about 2.5% [music] in the pre-market
ahead of earnings next week. Some
leadership changes at the top of that
company. Coming up this hour, Daryl Kron
of Ws Fargo joins us as stocks hit a
[music] techfueled sell-off. Jay
Goldberg of Seapport seems signs of an
AI bubble and Michelle Meer of the
Mastercard Economics Institute as
consumer spending outpaces sentiment. We
begin this hour with equities pulling
back as traders digest hawish signals
from the Federal Reserve. Daryl Kron of
Wells Fargo highlighting the three eyes
that matter. inflation, interest rates,
and illiquidity. Writing, the recent
sell-off is more about positioning and
sentiment extremes and weak hands than a
change to underlying fundamentals. Daryl
joins us now for more. Daryl, good
morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> Just build on that a little bit.
>> Okay.
>> The fundamentals are strong, aren't
they?
>> The fundamentals are still strong. I
don't think that there's a lot of debate
about that. What what I would say the
two things maybe in yesterday's selloff
that people missed, right? Number one,
you had all the Fed speakers out being
hawkish, right? So for a moment in time,
Fed funds futures for a December cut
dipped below 50%. Right? The prior day,
just to put that in reference, they were
at 69%. A month prior to that, they were
95%. Right? So that's a pretty big move.
That's the spark that lit this thing
yesterday afternoon that we started the
selloff. Right? What I found was
interesting yesterday was, you know,
obviously decent breath on the equity
selloff, but if you looked at yesterday,
treasuries were negative, Bitcoin was
negative, gold was negative, the dollar
was negative, right? Which is
everything. So going back to the point
about weak hands and stuff when when
positioning and sentiment gets out over
their skis or offsides and people have
to cover margin calls and other things
you sell what you can not what you want
right and so you're forced to sell
strong assets treasuries right gold
things that you would normally hang on
to to meet some of those extremes in
markets so I think that's what you saw
yesterday
>> everything that's done well in the last
year or so year today did poorly
yesterday got that the equity market is
that a stronger story to get hold of.
When you look at the equity market right
now and people are talking about 5 to
10% pullbacks, is that a pullback people
ultimately want to buy or a pullback
people run away from? So, we have a lot
of conviction around this. Um, we've
been, you know, like a lot of people
waiting for that kind of intra bull
equity correction. 5 10% you usually get
two a year, 10% one a year in a calendar
year. We think this is absolutely
viable, right? We like the fundamentals
going out into 2026. So if you get a 5 7
10% pullback, um I would be using it as
an opportunistic way to add capital in.
Now what we did do is we downgraded
technology on October 30th from
favorable back to neutral. Neutral is
still a sizable waiting obviously in a
portfolio. Um ironically the NASDAQ hit
its high on October 29th. So sometimes
better to be lucky than good, right, on
those type of things. But where we would
put capital is in places like
financials, industrials, utilities,
places where you're getting some of the
benefit of the horizontal expansion of
AI without having to buy the valuations
of the tech.
>> Okay, I love this. You're you're the
second person this morning who said,
"Yes, buy the dip, not in tech, but in
everything else, buy the dip in
financials, buy the dip in healthcare."
At what point are we hearing an
increasing aversion to buying tech at
these valuations, even in a 5 to 10%
draw down just simply because the
structure of some of these companies has
changed? Yeah, I think it's a good
point, Lisa. I mean, the point I made
about being neutral, right, with the
market cap waitings of the index, you
still have to have a meaningful position
obviously in technology, but let's just
admit like things got out a little bit
over their skis here. They got a little
white hot. We saw the same thing happen
in midocctober. Remember the catalyst at
that point was when President Trump came
out and said he was going to put 100%
tariffs on China and that he and Jing Xi
weren't going to meet. and all of a
sudden the VIX spikes to 28, right? This
morning we're at 22, right? So that kind
of um what I'd call sticky volatility
that's been with us for the last 30 to
45 days, I think is emblematic of what's
happening as we transition in this tech
world. To us, just valuations just got
to extremes through the summer months
and the early fall and we just said time
to take some profit, right? Pull that
back. I don't think you abandon tech by
any means, but we find better riskreward
trade-off in places like financials,
industrials, and utilities. Does the
move that we're seeing this morning in
bonds in particular make you like
treasuries once again as a hedge? I'm
talking about long-term treasuries.
>> Yes. I mean, I think you can still buy
treasuries here. Um, you know, what
people forget is if you look at the
Bloomberg, you know, US uh uh bond
aggregate, it's up 7 and a half% year to
date, right? I mean, we haven't had
positive bond returns for probably four
years post pandemic, right? It's finally
a creative again to portfolios, right?
And so I think you can still use those
bonds as a traditional way to play that
sector, right? What people also forget
is US households own $61 trillion worth
of US equities, right? So if you do get
that 10% correction, it's meaningful. In
fact, if you do the math, it means
probably about 3/4 to 1% of GDP that it
can shave off if you get a 10%
correction or vice versa can be
additive. So part of the economic growth
story has just been the wealth effect of
what's happening if you just simply do
the math.
>> How supportive is tariff revenue for
this bond market and if it started to go
away or was spent elsewhere what would
it mean for the treasury market?
>> It would put upward pressure no doubt on
on treasury yields particularly long
developing is that happening right now?
>> Uh maybe not quite yet. I mean obviously
concerns about IPA but you know to to me
John the tariff story is not about
whether tariffs will be applied. It's
how they'll be applied, right? Because
if they're not done by IPA, they'll be
done by section 122, section 301,
section 232. It'll take longer to do it.
>> They'll keep raising the money, right?
>> They'll keep raising the money. And
>> are they going to keep spending it, too?
Because we've heard about $2,000 rebet
checks this week. And it doesn't feel
like that story is losing steam.
>> Yeah. If you take if you take what
they've raised already and just
projected tariffs and freeze them at
this moment, it's about $410 billion.
Right. That's almost 20 to 25% of the
$1.8 trillion budget deficit. Right. So,
it's meaningful to apply back, you know,
against that if you can do it. If for
some reason you're going to refund all
that money back to to whence it came,
guess what happens to corporate margins
and earnings, right? Because all that
money was pulled in, if it goes back to
the companies where it came from, all of
a sudden it's a it's a monumental lift
in margins and earnings.
>> These are all potential negatives for
the bond market, potentially for the
Treasury market. The credit market
supporting massive AI spend now as well.
So the bigger question I think across
treasuries and credit, will treasuries
and credit continue to support the big
dreams of the equity market given how
it's priced at the moment going into a
new year?
>> Um so so let me put it this way. Our
year-end 2026
target for interest rates on the 10-year
and the 30-year are in the 4 and a/4 to
450 kind of range, right? So higher from
today's levels, right? the probably the
highest conviction that we have in the
Treasury markets right now um is a is
the curve steepener. We still think no
matter how you play it, the curve has to
steepen. Whether that's short-term rates
coming down and long-term rates staying
somewhat stable or long-term rates going
up, which is your story, right, about
concerns about fiscal concerns about um
tariffs.
>> Someone else's story. I'm just
articulating it for [laughter] carry on,
please.
>> No, that's right. I mean, but but I
think you I think the right normal level
for long-term Treasury yields, right,
are in that 4 and a quarter to 450.
Remember, the long side of the Treasury
curve is a term premium, a growth
premium, and an inflation premium,
right? And growth premiums and inflation
premiums have been coming down. Term
premiums have actually also been coming
down lately, but we think we'll expand
it next year.
>> Darl, good to see you.
>> You too, John. Thanks.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you, sir.
Darren Kron there for Wells Fargo.
Yields are lower this morning at least.
We're down five basis points across the
belly of the curve. Down by almost five
now on 10's 4.07%
on a 10-year bond yield. The equity
market near session lows. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us. Here's
Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Walmart announcing a change in
leadership ahead of earnings next week.
The company announcing CEO Doug
McMillian will retire at the end of
January next year. John Ferner will take
over as CEO on February 1st after
serving as the company's executive vice
president and CEO for [music] Walmart
US. Ferner first joined the company as
an hourly associate back in 1993.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump is
readying substantial tariff cuts to
address high food prices. The [music]
president unveiled frameworks with
Argentina, Guatemala, El Salvador, and
Ecuador to reduce tariffs on common
grocery items. [music] The deals will
reduce tariffs and barriers on items
like beef, bananas, and coffee beans in
a push for affordability.
And Subhub shares are plunging down 18%
after the ticketing [music] platform
failed to provide guidance for its
current quarter in its latest earnings
report. it CEO said the [music] company
plans to offer an outlook for 2026 when
it reports fourth quarter results. This
was the company's first earnings report
after going [music] public in September.
Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next, the morning calls
plus Jay Goldberg [music] of Seport with
the loan seller rating on Nvidia
following mounting AI bubble fears.
Jay's going to join us in just a moment
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
>> [music]
>> We are [music] in the midst of a major
technological transformation. uh that
sure requires a lot of chips and
requires a lot of uh uh data and data
[music] centers, but also requires a lot
of energy. So the technology and the
energy are combining in a way that we're
seeing job reductions, but at the same
time, we're going to see a massive
increase in power bills. [music] Well,
we see some push back to the AI story.
We're starting to see it in the equity
market. We're down 1% on the S&P. We're
down by 1.45% [music] on the NASDAQ 100.
If you're just joining us this morning,
this is better than it was about an hour
ago. In a bond market, a bit of an
offset coming from fixed income now.
Bond yields are lower across the curve.
Twos are down by four. Likewise on
tents, we're down by four or five basis
points this morning to 4.0
7%.
>> Yeah, you are seeing buyers come in
given the fact that there is this risk
[music] aversion. There's so many
crossurrens this morning. On one hand,
you've got the tech story, a question of
how much you really are seeing some sort
of gut check about the buildout of tech.
And then you have this Walmart story
heading into earnings next week, which
really is fascinating. The idea that the
CEO, Doug McMillan, is stepping [music]
down and he's going to be replaced by
the former head of Walmart US. So, he's
going to be the new CEO. And it raises a
question, why do this now [music] before
earnings, right? The timing of it
raising questions, the nature of it's
raising questions, which is the reason
why maybe you're seeing the the shares
add to the sell-off and add to questions
about the state of the consumer and how
much this has to do with anything going
forward.
>> [music]
>> On that front,
>> stock is down by 2.7% in early trading.
Numbers from Walmart coming next
Thursday. Look out for [music] that
later next week. Let's get you some
morning calls. First up, WS Fargo
raising its price target on applied
materials [music] to 255 remaining
positive despite current weakness. Your
second call from bed initiating
Microsoft [music] coverage with an
outperform highlighting doubledigit
revenue growth potential. And finally,
Morgan Stanley [music] raising its price
target on Nvidia to 220 ahead of
earnings citing strong demand signals.
that name this morning down about 3%.
Let's stick with tech. The NASDAQ 100 on
track for back-to-back [music]
weekly declines as valuation concerns
grip Wall Street. Mandy Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins [music] us
now for more. Mandy, we've been spoiled.
It's up and to the right, up and to the
right pretty consistently over the last
several months. What do you make of this
move lower in the past two days?
I think Mandep Sing's got a problem with
his microphone. Mandep, you're going to
unmute. You're going to make it happen.
>> Yeah. So, uh, look,
>> there we go, buddy. You're the tech
analyst, Mandy. Get the tech right. Come
on. [laughter]
>> There's a credibility gap there, sir.
>> Carry on, Mandy. Please.
>> Look, when it comes to the capex spend,
you've seen, you know, these
hyperscalers go from $50 billion in
capex to over hundred billion. And now
we are talking about over $150 billion
in capex per quarter. So when you see
numbers like this go up the ROI question
will constantly be asked and then in
that case you have to look at the
quality of the backlog that these
companies are generating and a Microsoft
backlog will look far better than an
Oracle backlog for example and that's
where you know you will see these kind
of stock moves where uh investors will
react because they are anxious about the
ROI but there is no doubt that the
demand is there it's just a question of
who will do better in terms of realizing
it sooner. I think Microsoft is an
example that will realize it sooner but
Oracle it may take longer. At the same
time the demand constraints or sorry the
supply constraints are there and so from
that perspective you know the
semiconductor infrastructure players
still look pretty good
>> at this point. The demand for some of
the uh AI services certainly very high
and there isn't enough supply to meet
it. Is the demand for the debt tied to
some of these companies for the ability
the privilege of being able to pay for
this? Is that still as strong as it has
been?
>> Well, so when it comes to the debt side,
look, the neoclouds like Cororee,
Nebius, and all these companies, they
are the ones that have, you know, a
rental business where they're buying
chips from Nvidia. They don't have their
cash. They have to raise money. And so
the fact that they're able to do it and
then translate that into a backlog. In
fact, Corv's backlog grew 3x uh this
quarter. So from that perspective again
uh you know as long as the demand is
there you will see these companies sign
up long duration contracts and when you
see you know an equilibrium reach in
terms of the market dynamics that's when
the backlog growth will slow down and I
think that maybe at that point of time
the market will start to just uh kind of
slow down in terms of new issuance but
there is no doubt that right now power
infrastructure these are constraints and
so that's where you are finding all the
financing you need.
>> Mandy, thank you. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Mandy, thanks so
much. Jay Goldberg of Seapport remaining
cautious writing, "We think we're in a
bubble. The level of exaggerated
rhetoric around AI is steadily getting
louder and when the spending contracts,
it will ripple across the broader US
economy." Jay joins us now for more.
Jay, welcome. I've wanted to talk to you
about this all week. that very odd
awkward question to Sam Alman about your
revenues here, your spending commitments
are right up there. And he turns around
and just says, "If you don't like the
stock, sell it. Someone will buy it."
Jay, I I just wonder if you saw that
exchange, how uncomfortable it made you
feel and what it means for the broader
ecosystem.
>> I did see that exchange. Uh I it it did
make me it raised a lot of questions for
me, right? I'm I'm not as optimistic
about near-term demand for services,
about near-term demand for AI. Um like
again, I love I love the technology. AI
is going to be important someday. It's
just going to take a while. And my
industry semiconductors are cyclical. Uh
they go up and for a long time, but they
can also come down. And I think there
are a lot of there are a lot of warning
signs. There's a lot of froth in the
system. And I think it's reasonable to
be a little prudent here.
>> Jay, what's the number one warning sign
for you? What's the big flashing red
light that gets your attention that you
keep calling people up and saying, "Look
at this. Look at this."
>> I I I think it it is these increasingly
elaborate Byzantines uh financings
around these neoclouds. Um those are
getting some to be some pretty complex
structures. Uh Cor and Nebius, yeah,
they're they both have big backlogs
that's growing, but like what is the
quality of that revenue that's coming
in? How do we value that? I think there
are a lot of questions around around
that. Jay, is this a valuation story or
is this an existential story for some of
the uh less solid players?
I
>> I I think right now there are probably
200 NeoClouds. I mean, the number I hear
keeps growing. Uh that's just a big a
big number, right? So, I'm I'm worried
about the sustainability of all of
those. Uh there there will eventually be
consolidation there. The the debt
markets will force that. Um, I don't
know exactly when that's going to
happen, but I do think that there it's
it is unsustainable at this current
structure.
>> Given the fact that there is a
significant buildout of debt and these
elaborate financial structures, as
you've said, how much will this reach
into the echelons of Nvidia and
Microsoft and Alphabet and how much do
you expect this to stay relegated to the
core weaves of the world, the applied
digitals?
>> So, I think I I ultimately gets felt all
the way up. I think the the problem I
have with the current cycle is that it
is so narrowly concentrated. If you look
at all these deals that are that are
taking place in the Neoclouds in in the
broader ecosystem, it all comes back to
spending from the same six companies,
right? Google's and the Microsoft,
Amazon, Oracle, OpenAI, right? That's a
very very narrow base for this huge
cycle. And I think ultimately what will
will change is at some point some of
those players will start to rethink
their spending or shift it elsewhere. Um
and that will sort of rip. That's that's
where I see the rippling taking place is
as those those six spenders
>> change their behavior. They can't keep
spending like this forever.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and at some point that will alter the
way this this trade is taking place.
>> Jay, I've got about 30 left. I wanted to
squeeze in this name Apple. J Apple has
sat a lot of this out. Do you like that
name for that reason?
>> I like Apple in the near term, I think
their cycle is doing well. I think they
have some good phones on the market
right now. Um, but that's a that's to me
a fairly short-term trade. Uh, longer
term, the AI questions for Apple are
pretty pretty serious. I just think they
have time to address it. Uh, they still
have a year or two to sort it all out.
Um, but they need to eventually get
working on that.
>> Jay, thank you, sir. It's good to hear
from you. Thanks for checking in. and
Jake Albert there of Seport. Apple also
down this morning by around 7/10en of
1%. The bigger hits though going to
Nvidia down by something like three.
>> Yeah, I think you rais a great point
though. This is sort of the bastion of
stability at a time where there are
questions around the debt structure tied
to artificial intelligence. The bug was
for Apple that they hadn't invested
enough in artificial intelligence and
now evidently that's the feature.
>> That's what happens when you pull back
by 2 to 3%. Exactly. The S&P 500 story
changes quickly. Bears celebrate two to
3% move after everything's gone up and
to the right all year.
>> They've already all capitulated.
[laughter]
>> They don't even exist anymore. [music]
>> The opening bell is about an hour and 5
minutes away. We'll be catching up with
Michelle Meer of Mastercard on how
plunging consumer sentiment has his
spending. Plus, the latest on Walmart.
That name is down 2.7%.
[music]
Some weakness on the screen this
morning. The opening bell about 60
minutes away. Equities down across the
board. [music] On the S&P, we're down by
more than 1%. On the last 100, negative
by 1.5. In the bond [music] market,
twos, 1030s rallying this morning. That
rally picking up in the last 90 minutes.
We're [music] down five basis points on
10. We're down four on twos to 35494.
Some push back from Fed officials in the
last 24 hours and some push back from
Andrew [music] Hollenhorse of City just
moments ago. Lisa, Fed cuts are
underpriced.
>> Yeah. And it seems like that's actually
consensus right now for a lot of
different investors who are saying they
might talk a big game about being
hawkish. [music] But in reality, they
are going to cut rates. And I have to
say that the news over the past couple
of days and building right now would
actually edify that because the stock
market's not the economy. However, when
the stock market goes down, that might
reduce some of the fervor in the
highinccome earners that have [music]
actually been feeling pretty good
because of their stock gains and
spending a lot and supporting this
economy.
>> CPI is difficult to collect. Got that?
Okay, we're not going to have
unemployment. [music]
Got that. We're going to get payrolls.
Payrolls has been dreadful all year and
keeps getting revised lower. So by the
time they get to [music] their meeting
on December 9th, decide on December
10th, if all they've got to go on are
these bad payrolls figures, who's got
the stronger hand at [music] that
meeting?
>> Yeah. Especially if you see any kind of
wobble like what we're seeing right now
continue. I will just say what happened
to when payrolls without the
unemployment rate was useless. Remember
when people would say that? They'd say
even Jay Powell was saying he was
focused more on the [music] unemployment
rate because it was so hard to gauge the
actual supply of workers at any given
time. Now we're going to get the
absolute number and that's going to
matter because that's all we have. I'm
sorry. Bear with me. I'm just
>> We don't know what the break even rate
is. So no one really knows what a good
or bad number actually is on payrolls.
>> Moving target. So pick your poison, take
a dart, throw it, and most people are
saying it will equal [music] Fed rate
cuts. It's
>> going to be fun when we finally get that
economic data from BLS. Equities down by
more than 1% with your movers into the
opening bell. Here's Yahihara [music]
with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. What a morning. We start with
Walmart shares. They are falling two and
a half% in the pre-market on a
leadership shakeup. [music] Doug
McMillan, the CEO, will be stepping
down. He' been in the role for more than
a decade. And John Ferner, [music] the
CEO of Walmart US, will be taking the
helm. This, of course, the timing is
raising questions as it comes just
[music] ahead of their earnings report
next week. Plus this idea that Doug
McMillan really brought this company
into the digital [music] age,
transforming it into an ecommerce and
digital powerhouse. So what will happen
when he leaves? Meanwhile, we are
tracking the deepening [music]
selloff. We are seeing shares of Tesla,
Nvidia, and Alphabet all lower in the
pre-market. It is these tech names, the
these AI darlings that that are leading
us lower [music] as investors get hit by
a perfect storm. Whether it's skepticism
around whether these AI investments will
be paying off, plus uncertainty [music]
over the Fed and a lack of data that
we've had. So, we are on track to pile
on to yesterday's [music] losses. And
not helping sentiment is Applied
Materials and their earnings. Their
shares are falling 7% in the pre-market
after reporting [music] another another
quarter of falling sales. This is a
company that builds the machines that
builds semiconductors and it says export
curbs to [music] China are hurting
demand and it expects that drag to
continue this quarter as well. [music]
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara a little bit later this
hour. Let's turn to the Federal Reserve.
Hawish comments from Fed President Neil
Qashqari. [music] Beth Hammer casting
down over the central bank's December
meeting.
I think we need to remain somewhat
restrictive to continue putting pressure
to bring [music] inflation down towards
our target.
>> Joining us now is Bloomberg's Mike McKe.
Mike McKe, that's a chorus of Fed hawks
in the past day or so.
>> I I don't know how much of a real
dispute it is. it is uh people staking
out different uh feelings about what the
economy needs as you guys were talking
about, but there's still a month to go
and I wouldn't say necessarily that
we're not going to get at least part of
the jobs report and at least part of the
CPI report. It is certainly possible.
Plus, we should get the PPI and that
should give the Fed a pretty good idea
of where we are. But this is what
happened this week. The only person
saying we're going to definitely cut
rates is Steven Myron. And we knew that
Mary Daly taken a middle route, but as
you noted, Neil Qashqari
switched from saying three cuts this
year to maybe just the one that that has
passed and and we won't do anymore. And
that scared people in the market. You
got three people who came out speaking
this week who said we shouldn't cut at
all. And so markets have at the moment
priced out December, but as uh you know,
we're going to have a whole lot of
economic data released by the BLS and
BEA in the next couple of weeks. And who
knows what it's going to tell us and
what these people are going to be
thinking by the time we get to December
10th.
>> Mike, I kind of understand what it means
to get part of the jobs report because
one survey goes into one data point and
another survey goes into one more. What
does it mean to get part of the CPI
report? What does that mean?
Well, there are a number of categories
where most of the data would come in and
a good one is housing because uh the BLS
can call uh home builders and find out
what prices are. They can call realtors
and find out what uh homes sold for. So,
they can get that data. They can get uh
car data from automobile companies and
automobile dealers. It's the consumer
products that you find a lot of places
uh that people are buying that they
won't have. But the majority uh well not
the majority 38% is what I'm told uh is
data that they could get very easily or
already would have in hand. So they
could put out some sectoral CPIs if they
wanted and that might be something that
they want to do in order to keep the
series going, not break the series as
well as help the Fed. Matt, thank you
sir. Matt McKe with the update on what
we might get from the BLS and when
exactly we're going to get it. This is
complicated. You know how much like just
think about real life how difficult it
is to change someone's mind. Okay. How
difficult it's going to be to change
someone's mind at the Federal Reserve
when we're not going to have much
economic data to do it.
>> Yeah. Well, this I think we found out
that they don't really have an opinion
on anything right now. So, it seems like
the minds aren't made up except for on a
couple of corners of the uh Federal
Reserve, the FOMC. So, that's ultimately
the question, but you're right. Is there
a bias here? And if there is, is it
going to pervade? And this is the bias
that people think will pervade, which is
it's going to be a Fed rate cut.
>> A Fed rate cut in December 10th.
>> And that's what Andrew Holland Horse is
saying, and that's what a lot of people
in markets are saying, especially if you
see what we have seen over the past
couple of hours continue over the next
couple of weeks.
>> I take the view that this is exactly
where Chairman Pow wants us to be. Coin
flip, two-way risk. And that was the
intention of what we heard in the news
conference at the last meeting.
Evidently, Operation Success, the Fed
speak allowed people to really get
around the idea that maybe there really
is uncertainty and it really will be a
coin flip.
>> It is far from a foregone conclusion.
And that's exactly where he wanted it to
be. A sent to the consumer. Wall Street
preparing for retail earnings next week.
Michelle Mer of the Mastercard Economics
Institute writing hiring has slowed but
firing remains low. Weaker consumer
sentiment doesn't seem to be showing up
in aggregate spending. Michelle joins us
now for more. Michelle, good morning.
>> Good morning. similar spending behind
the Qashqari switch in the last couple
of weeks, the last several months. Are
you seeing robust spending just
continuing at a steady level or is it
picking up?
>> So, it's been quite interesting to
monitor consumer in in real time,
especially in the absence of the Census
Bureau data as well, talking about the
lack of data. Um, so for us, we've been
really really squirly focused on what
we're seeing in terms of real-time
spending metrics and um it's been
robust. So when we look at October, our
spending pulse measure, which represents
payments spending across all different
payment types, so it's comprehensive, is
at 3 and a.5% on a year-over-year basis
for October. So it's strong. It's
actually an acceleration from September.
When we dig even deeper and look at the
weekly data, the month started off a
little bit softer, but the second half
of October was this really, really
meaningful acceleration across a number
of categories. So it is hard for me to
see an economy that is not continuing to
move forward in a world where the
consumer is still so engaged.
>> How much do you get a sense that the
increase in spending is tied to more
goods that people are buying versus
increased prices of those goods?
>> So it seems like it's probably a little
bit of both. Um so we are seeing
particularly in October there was a
quite a lot of strength in apparel
spending. That was one of the categories
that really stood out um with strength
and that could be partly pricing. We
know that there's a heavy import share
there. Tariffs are being passed on to
some degree um presumably modestly.
We'll know more once we eventually get
some CPI data. Um but so I think it's a
little bit of a pricing story especially
relative to last year when it was a
heavily disinflationary even
deflationary economy for a lot of these
goods. I'm just wondering whether there
also has been this concentration in the
upper income sphere if that continues to
be driving all of the increases and the
strength that you're seeing and you know
how much that's been on the heels of
what's happened to the stock market. I
mean can you draw a direct correlation
between spending at the high end and
what we've seen in uh AI stocks.
>> Yeah. I mean so look I mean the upper
income consumer always has a greater
cushion, right? They're they're relying
on what's happening in the labor market
of course in terms of their income but
they have this buffer from their balance
sheet and their balance sheet has been
very supportive when you look at the
move in the stock market you look at the
appreciation of housing assets as well
so they have a positive wealth effect
that they can realize I don't think
day-to-day fluctuations are going to
make much of a difference right the
literature shows that hap consumers
respond over a period of time of wealth
accumulation and that's when they start
to adjust their behavior when they feel
like they have a persistent wealth gain
um But it can impact confidence on the
on the margin perhaps.
>> On occasion, we've seen company after
company come out and say they're
struggling to pass on high costs to the
consumer. We saw that from some fast
casual restaurants. I think restaurants
I think Chipotle is a great example of
that. Tried to put a price like 1% in
California that was pushed back. You
seeing signs of the same thing?
>> I'm seeing signs that the this is a
consumer that is very very savvy right
now. Right. the consumer knows that they
have the decision to make as to whether
or not they want to absorb those higher
prices because there's so much price
discovery that's happening right now,
especially in a world where there's so
much technology, there's so much
e-commerce, and there's so much
information out there. So, it's no
longer the case that the consumer walks
into a store and says, "This is the
price I must buy this if I want this
good." They can search. They can figure
out how to optimize their purchasing
power. And I think we're seeing that in
a significant way right now, especially
after we're coming off of the pandemic
induced price increases which took them
for a shock because there was such a
long period of low inflation. All of a
sudden prices jumped up in the pandemic.
They've responded to that. They've
reacted to that and they remember that
and I think that is influencing how much
consumers are willing to accept pricing.
Now,
>> how difficult is it to speak about the
consumer in aggregate given the fact
that you're seeing dispersions in
income, but also in regions, different
regions, different political groups,
there just seems to be these massive
divergencies that create a real noise
underneath the averages.
>> For sure, that's always the case. Um, I
think because we have this um unique
data where we can cut the economy in a
in a quite a granular way, I think it
does provide additional perspective for
us and that that's quite helpful. So on
a regional basis, the southeast has been
outperforming for some time. So if I
look specifically at October, we are
seeing a particular strength in
Tennessee, in the Carolinas, in Florida,
the fastest acceleration of spending
across a variety of categories. And
that's consistent with what we've seen
in terms of job creation as well. Um
whereas in other parts of the country,
certainly it's a bit softer. Parts of
the Midwest um over the last few years
has been has been a bit softer as well.
>> Can we do Fed guesses with you still? of
yeah I mean what economist doesn't like
>> of course lean in [laughter] best guess
for next month
>> I think more likely than not they'll
likely lean in the direction of cutting
um but to me it's not it's the
characterization of the cut that I think
ultimately is going to get them around
to moving and have that consensus on the
Fed and what I mean by that is that it
will not be described and frankly
shouldn't be described as an easing of
monetary policy an economy that needs
lower interest rates because there's
something really problematic in the
economy. I think it'll be discussed as
the fact that we are still removing the
restrictive policy that was put in place
when we had a much different economy and
now the economy has changed. We've
learned a lot about pricing. We've
learned that the concern over tariff
induced shock to prices didn't play out,
that it's going to be slower, that it's
going to be more measured. Um, and in
the interim, we've seen a labor market
that has slowed down in terms of the
churn, which also means you don't need
as restrictive policy.
>> Michelle, good to see you as always.
Thank you. Spending looks good
apparently over at Mastercard. Michelle
Ma of the Mastercard Economic Institute
sharing some of that data with you on
tariffs and the pass through. Ambassador
Gri speaking to the American press
today. Time to take off some tariffs on
products not made here. Banana, coffee,
cocoa. Those tariffs and that relief is
mutually beneficial.
>> Yeah. And I'm actually really interested
in some of the relationships on the back
of that. We just heard that Argentina
and the US are normalizing relations or
creating some easier ties there. I
wonder what other kinds of agreements
there are to try to lock in some
additional kind of geopolitical uh
issues in addition to lowering the
tariffs on banana coffee and cocoa which
will be welcome to anyone who is waking
up this morning.
>> A lot of people have been complaining
about the price of coffee.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean you got to be awake
to really expensive. Equity session lows
were down 1.2% 2% on the S&P 500 with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Verizon is discussing plans to
announce job cuts that could downsize
the company by as much as 20%. [music]
The planned cuts could impact up to
20,000 workers and are part of an
aggressive strategy to reclaim market
share. The Wall Street Journal also
reporting the company is planning to
convert 200 company [music] owned stores
to franchises.
Meanwhile, Amazon and Microsoft are
lining up against Nvidia. The Wall
Street Journal reporting the two
companies are supporting legislation
that would require chip companies to
satisfy US demand before sending
products to China and other countries
subject to arms embargos. Nvidia is
fighting [music] the legislation.
And baseball's most valuable players
have been crowned in the National
League. LA Dodgers Phenom. [music]
Show Otani won his fourth MVP award and
third in a row, winning in a unanimous
vote. In the AL, Yankee slugger Aaron
Judge won his third MVP, beating out
Mariners catcher Cal Raleigh. It's the
first time in history that both MVPs
repeated in back-to [music] back years.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, Manam Mahajan of
Edward Jones on why the equity pullback
[music]
could be a healthy sight for New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
When it comes to tech, you're seeing
large issuance come out. Investors still
say they're going to be able to do what
they're doing. That's a lot of uh
positivity coming from these companies,
but yet at the same time, we're hearing
uh builders can't deliver on data
centers. We're not there's not enough
energy and power for some of these data
centers. So, I would be a little more
skeptical than maybe the average
investor.
>> What do they say? Price sets narrative.
A lot of bearish takes this morning
given this tape right here. Here we're
down 1% on the [music] S&P. We're down
by 1.6 on the Nasdaq. On the Russell,
small caps down by 1.4. As we count down
to the opening bout with this sell-off
in mind, look ahead to today and next
week. Some Fed speak today. Schmidt,
Logan, Bostic. Tuesday, this is when
earnings start to pick up. Home Depot.
Wednesday, [music] you're going to hear
from Target. You'll also hear from
Nvidia later on the afternoon. And on
Thursday, Walmart. Walmart in focus now
with a change to leadership as well.
That is one to watch. [music]
>> Yeah. Especially because this morning
Walmart announced that Doug McMillan,
the CEO, who is 59 years old, is
retiring. The head of Walmart US, John
Ferner, is named as a successor, [music]
coming into uh force. We do expect
Walmart CEO Doug McMillan who is
stepping down to remain on the board and
stay there until 2026, raising a
question of the timing of why now,
especially given the fact that Doug
McMillan was widely considered to be
quite successful in terms of turning
around [music] some of the strategy at
the world's big at the US biggest
retailer.
>> So look for Walmart on Thursday and I'd
also say this on that calendar going to
fill some gaps on that calendar in the
[music] next few days when we find out
when that payrolls report for September
is going to drop. So watch this space.
Let's turn back to the equity market
sell-off. Concerns about tech valuations
putting a dent on equity futures.
[music]
Mona Mahajan of Edward Jones writing the
fundamentals of the AI story in our view
remain [music] intact. And after a
powerful rally since April, we believe a
reset for these names could be healthy.
Ma joins us now for more. Ma, welcome.
What's healthy about this move?
>> Yeah, thanks Sean. Look, uh, after a 55%
rally in the NASDAQ since those April
lows, uh, we went up almost in a
straight line without a 5% or higher
correction. So, in our view, could we be
due for a period of profit taking a
little bit of consolidation, especially
as we're headed into year end, and
investors are thinking about uh where
are their gains? They're also thinking
about positioning for 2026. Now, all
that being said, a healthy reset, yes,
is the story over? We don't think so,
but the case for diversification, we
think, does become even stronger in the
year ahead.
>> Man, what is a healthy reset? So, this
is a 3% pullback on the S&P. What's a
healthy reset?
Yeah, you know, look, uh we know in any
given year corrections in the 5 10 15%
plus range for those higher beta p parts
of the market are uh the norm. And in
fact, this year we got one pretty severe
almost 20% downturn uh in the S&P 500
earlier in April. We haven't gotten
another one yet. But what gives us some
confidence that a pullback or correction
doesn't turn into a deep or prolonged
bare market? Well, a couple things. one,
usually those occur historically when
the Fed is aggressively raising rates.
And in fact, during the dotcom bubble in
the late 1990s, that's what kind of
killed uh the the tech rally in those
years, a Fed aggressively raising rates
or you're heading into a recession or a
deep downturn. And we don't see either
of those scenarios on the horizon. So,
gives us some comfort that these
pullbacks and corrections uh won't turn
into something more nefarious and maybe
provide some opportunities. Mona, this
baby is in the stock space. Do you think
that it's a different story this time in
the credit space given that suddenly
we're seeing a different tone,
particularly when it comes into
financing some of the AI buildout?
Yeah. Uh it's a great call out and look
that has been part of what has been
weighing on these stocks over the last
few days. Um certainly we are seeing
companies like Oracle which by the way
were not part of the MAG7 were not as
cashrich as the MAG7 were and in fact
were more debt burdened heading into
this cycle. they have taken on more debt
and their leverage ratios are not
looking as attractive and you can see
that in some of the CDS reaction uh for
that name in particular but more broadly
we are seeing companies like Meta like
Google take on more debt to finance some
of this tremendous capex spending that
they've projected for 2026 over time
could that weigh on margins and free
cash flow uh potentially yes and so I
think that is part of the the new
narrative that has been emerging
companies raising debt companies going
from being asset ass light to asset
heavy and I think that shift uh may
weigh on some of the valuations we've
been seeing.
>> How does that affect your investment
strategy when it comes to corporate
credit when it comes to the debt equity
mix in your portfolios?
Yeah, you know, certainly um from an
equity perspective, what we are saying
is it is important to have exposure uh
in the US to both the large cap space
and the midcap space which we think does
have more scope for valuation expansion
potentially and some catchup from a
sector perspective. We like both growth
and value parts of the market. So if you
are adding new money, putting new money
to work sectors like we think
healthcare, industrials, um to
complement or alongside some of the tech
and AI and to your point on credit, uh
we continue to um favor parts of the
investment grade market, we are not
really extending duration at this point
given some of the moves lower in yields
and we continue to see neutral on credit
quality. In fact, a little bit cautious
on the high yield space here. So broadly
we still like equities versus fixed
income. Within equities we want to be
diversified and probably uh shorter
duration on the credit side as well.
>> Mana appreciate the update. Thank you.
Mana Mahajan there of Edward Jones going
into the opening bow with equity futures
down across the board here. The S&P 500
down by close to 1%. Lot's changed this
week. Fair bit of push back from the
Federal Reserve on market pricing for
interest rate cuts in December and a bit
of a pivot I think we've got to track
from this administration as well on
tariff relief on tax rebates. There's a
change in tone coming from the White
House and it started over the weekend
and it's picked up through the trading
week.
>> Yeah, there are a number of different
strains here and it's hard to put them
all together. On one hand, you've got
the Fed push back, the idea that maybe a
rate cut isn't warranted based on guess
what inflation. Then comes the response
from the administration on guess what
inflation cost of living. This concern
that the administration really is
emphasizing after the mid midterm
elections that really highlighted that
as an issue. And then you've got the
tech overlay. This question of is this
time different with debt financing
really in the forefront of some of the
wobble that you are seeing in some of
the big tech names. A question of how
much tolerance there is by credit
markets to finance this.
>> That's one to watch going down into the
opening bow. These headlines just
crossing from the US trade
representative Ambassador Greer.
Ambassador Greer saying the US to lower
the tariff rate on Swiss goods to 15%.
Switzerland agreeing to invest $200
billion in the United States economy. So
this comes after a lot of disagreement
and I'm sure it was welcome for
Switzerland. I want to understand more
about some of these investments in the
United States [music] that we're hearing
from a lot of different companies. So uh
countries uh so let's uh wait for more
details on that. It's
>> been a long week hasn't it? Hey
>> can you tell [laughter]
>> for you and I both coming up on Monday
Russ of Black Rockck to Slark of Apollo
Henry Trey of Vader Partners Abigail
Watt of UBS have a wonderful weekend.
Thank you for choosing Bloomberg TV.
[music]
This was Bloomberg surveillance.
>> Day five at the Neto ATP finals. Carlos
Alcarez clinched the year-end world
number one ranking with a comfortable
win over home favorite Lorenzo Meti. The
victory was his 70th so far this season.
That's a careerhigh for the six-time
major champion. Earlier, Alex Demanure
secured his spot in the semis with a
crucial win over Taylor Fritz. He'll
face Yanuk SA for a spot in Sunday's
final.